The intestinal epithelium is susceptible to tumourigenesis, and many intestinal tumours initiate by aberrant Wnt/β-catenin signalling. The APCMin mouse model of intestinal cancer is characterized by the somatic loss of functional APC, which is similar to the initiation of human intestinal tumours. Here, we report a comprehensive analysis of DNA methylation changes in intestinal adenoma, which is the first step of intestinal tumour formation in mice. We used genome-wide DNA methylation profiling by immunoprecipitation of methylated DNA (MeDIP-seq) to identify differentially methylated regions (DMRs) in normal and adenomatous intestinal tissue. We identified 13,980 DMRs, of which 5,135 (37%) were hypermethylated and 8,845 (63%) hypomethylated in adenoma. Promoter hypermethylation was associated with the presence of Polycomb Repressive Complex (PRC) target genes, and with up-regulation of DNA methyltransferases (Dnmt1, Dnmt3a, Dnmt3b) and PRC components. We found recurring DMRs in multiple adenomas, and a core epigenetic signature of intestinal adenoma was conserved between mice and humans. Only a small fraction of genes whose promoters are hypermethylated in adenoma were transcriptionally down-regulated, whereas hypomethylated promoters were not consistently associated with transcriptional up-regulation. These observations suggest that the epigenetic deregulation in tumours can be divided into two principal components: an early and fast instructive patterning mechanism, which immediately follows tumour initiation, and late rare stochastic events promoting clonal expansion. Our data suggest that a conserved epigenetic signature of intestinal adenoma may be suitable as specific epigenetic disease marker.
Chagas disease, caused by the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma cruzi, is endemic to Latin America and presents a spectrum of clinical forms, ranging from mild to severe heart disease. The host immune response and parasite factors seem to play important roles in the process. The two major genetic groups of T. cruzi, TcI and TcII, have different biological and geographical features, and it has been suggested that TcII is associated with greater pathology. Here we evaluated the effects of infection by TcI (Col cl1.7) or TcII (Y strain) on immunological characteristics of human monocytes and lymphocytes. Our data showed that infection by Y strain and Col cl1.7 led to differential activation of monocytes and T cells, which are correlated with their profile of lower and higher virulence observed in animal models, respectively. Moreover, our data suggests mechanisms explaining how differences in parasite strains can lead to differences in human disease progression and outcome.
The DNA polymerase POLN is a single-stranded DNA polymerase encoded by the POLN gene in mammals. POLN has a unique DNA polymerase domain and a helicase domain. POLN is expressed in testes, but its function in mammals is not known. We describe here that POLN is required for meiotic recombination in mice. POLN is expressed in testes of mice, but not in somatic cells. We generated two mouse models that disrupt POLN function, and found that mice with disrupted POLN function are viable and fertile. We also show that mice lacking POLN are resistant to DNA crosslinking agents, and that POLN is required for translesion synthesis. We suggest that POLN is a specialized DNA polymerase that is required for a DNA repair pathway in spermatocytes.
Dengue virus is a major public health threat. Dengue vaccine development has been hindered by the complexity of the pathogenesis of dengue disease and the risk of antibody-dependent enhancement (ADE). To develop a vaccine that does not induce ADE, we generated a dengue-2 envelope protein domain III (ED III) lipidated vaccine candidate, LD2ED III, and evaluated its immunogenicity and efficacy. LD2ED III was produced by recombinant expression of dengue-2 ED III in Escherichia coli. The purified recombinant protein was then lipidated with lipoprotein Ag473, which has been shown to be a potent adjuvant in animal studies. LD2ED III was purified and tested in BALB/c mice. LD2ED III was highly immunogenic and induced stronger antibody responses than recombinant ED III. The antibody avidity and neutralizing capacity of LD2ED III-immune sera were higher than those of dengue-2 virus-immune sera. LD2ED III-immune sera elicited less ADE in K562 cells than dengue-2 virus-immune sera. These results suggest that LD2ED III is a potential dengue vaccine candidate with a low risk of detrimental effects.
External stimuli typically induce cellular responses by binding to cell surface receptors. Intracellular signaling networks transduce the signal, ultimately triggering gene expression responses in the nucleus. The basic building blocks of eukaryotic signaling networks are protein kinase cascades. Signaling cascades can transduce information in different ways: the activity of the terminal kinase may quantitatively reflect the concentration of the extracellular stimulus, and the cascade is termed to behave gradually (or analog) in this case. Alternatively, the cascade may act as an ultrasensitive switch that responds in a digital (“all-or-none”) manner. Ultrasensitive decision making requires additional regulation mechanisms which increase the steepness of the dose-response curve. The dose-response curve of signaling pathways is typically sigmoidal in shape and can be quantitatively described by the so-called Hill equation. The Hill coefficient determines how steeply the pathway responds to external stimulation: the signaling cascade shows gradual behavior for , while ultrasensitive decision making is observed for . In the limit of very high the dose-response approaches a step-function and the pathway acts as a digital switch with the threshold stimulus . We systematically characterize the cell-to-cell variability of protein kinase cascades by studying the steady state dose-response behavior of signaling pathways. We focus on the dose-response behavior of signaling to investigate how sustained a cell population responds to a change in a hormonal stimulus. We find that the cell-to-cell variability of protein kinase cascades is strongly influenced by the properties of individual reaction steps and their kinetic parameters. Our results may explain why the yeast pheromone pathway shows switch-like decision making with little cell-to-cell variability.
Chronic infections are a major challenge for human health. Leishmania donovani is a protozoan parasite that induces a chronic granulomatous disease in mice. In this model, the infection persists in the spleen, whereas the liver is cleared. Antigen-specific CD8+ T cell responses are crucial for the control of visceral leishmaniasis. We show here that ovalbumin-transgenic Leishmania donovani parasites evade CD8+ T cell responses by limiting their expansion and inducing functional exhaustion and cell death. We demonstrate that blocking the inhibitory receptor B7-H1 and the associated ligand PD-1 during chronic L. donovani infection rescues CD8+ T cell responses and reduces parasite burden. These data provide a rationale for the development of therapeutic vaccination strategies aimed at inducing antigen-specific CD8+ T cell responses against chronic infections.
The misfolding of the prion protein (PrP), which is a key aspect of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSE), has been the subject of intense research during the past decades. Nonetheless, little is known about the underlying molecular mechanism. One serious hurdle remains the determination of the structure of the resulting misfolded isoform (). As a consequence, various models have been suggested with substantially different packing arrangements and monomer structures, and a consensus about the structure of is far from being reached. A particular subject of controversy is about the actual region of PrP that undergoes a deep refolding during the PrP conversion. According to the so-called “spiral” and “” models, extended are formed in the N-terminal region and at the beginning of the C-terminal domain up to H1 (H1 is kept intact in the former and is refolded in the latter model). However, it has been recently shown that the H2H3 core is also highly fibrillogenic by itself. Finally, it has also been suggested that could be entirely refolded in an in-register extended. Many in vitro and computational studies have tackled this issue using acidic conditions. They have consistently shown that low pH destabilizes PrP and favors its misfolding. This represents biologically relevant conditions insofar as endosomal organelles, whose typical pH is about 5 but can be as low as 4.3, have been highlighted as possible locations for growth. Here, we have performed microsecond MD simulations of the structured C-terminal domain of mPrP at pH 4.5, which corresponds approximately to the lowest pH observed in endosomes. Our simulations show that the mechanism of mPrP destabilization upon protonation of H187 involves R136 as a key partner. The protonation of H187 induces an electrostatic repulsion between the imidazole ring of and the guanidinium group of R136. This repulsion leads to a reorganization of the protein structure, which can be observed on the microsecond time scale. Our findings hence highlight two possible routes for PrP misfolding with either the unraveling of H2(Cter) alone (route) or the unraveling of H2(Cter) with simultaneous elongation of S1,S2 (route). This dual behavior seems to reconcile the various observations and proposals that have been made regarding the actual PrP region that undergoes a deep refolding upon conversion to [2]–[5].
Trachomatous trichiasis (TT) is a scarring sequelae of repeated conjunctival Chlamydia trachomatis infection and inflammation, with the eyelid rolled inwards and the eyelashes turning towards the eye. The risk of sight loss is directly correlated with disease severity, becoming more frequent with increasing severity of trichiasis. The clinical phenotype ranges from a single aberrant eyelash touching the eye (without entropion) to the whole eyelid rolled inwards. Epilation is a widespread traditional practice in many trachoma endemic societies, with up to 70% of people with trichiasis using this treatment strategy. This study reports the four-year outcomes of study participants in a randomised controlled trial of epilation versus surgery for minor trichiasis in Ethiopia. The trial methods and results up to two-years have been published previously [22]. At four-years, 579 participants from the surgery arm and 572 from the epilation arm were re-examined. The majority of participants were female (65.7% and 65.3% respectively) and illiterate (88.5% and 89.8% respectively). At baseline, the groups had similar characteristics, with the exception of central corneal opacity (CC2/CC3), which was more frequent in the epilation group (128; 22.4%) than the surgery group (95; 16.4%). The epilation-only group had slightly less baseline trichiasis than the surgery arm (p<0.001) and the epilation-to-surgery participants (p<0.001). The epilation-only group had slightly less baseline entropion than the surgery arm (p=0.02) and the epilation-to-surgery participants (p=0.001). The epilation-only group had slightly less baseline LogMAR visual acuity than both the surgery arm (p=0.007) and the epilation-to-surgery participants (p=0.02). During the four-year period, recurrent trichiasis developed in 122 (21.1%) of the 579 participants randomised to surgery. Of these 122, 61 (50.0%) were practicing epilation at four years. Twenty-one (3.6%) had undergone repeat surgery during the four years. Among the 189 epilation-to-surgery participants, 42 (22.2%) had failed surgery (recurrent trichiasis), of whom 27 (64.2%) were epilating. At four-years, among the 383 epilation-only participants, 207 (54.1%) were successfully epilating (had no lashes touching the eye), 166 (43.3%) had minor trichiasis (<6 lashes) and 10 (2.6%) had major trichiasis (>5 lashes). Overall, the epilation-only group had more trichiasis, entropion and lid margin conjunctivalisation than either the surgery arm or the epilation-to-surgery group. At four-years, the surgery arm and the epilation-to-surgery participants had slightly better LogMAR visual acuity than the epilation-only group. However, this difference is attributable to the pre-existing difference in baseline vision. Age ≥50 years, male gender, detection of other visually impairing conditions (e.g. cataract), baseline corneal opacification (CC2/CC3) and incident/progressive corneal opacification were independently associated with deterioration in visual acuity. Incident or progressive corneal opacification was independently associated with age ≥50 years and the presence of some baseline corneal opacification (CC2/CC3). At four-years, 92% of the epilation-only participants had their epilation forceps. At four-years, new forceps were provided to those who had lost their forceps, and did not want surgery. Females were more likely to have retained their forceps than males (OR 2.38; 95%CI 1.15–4.96
Dengue virus (DV) is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. The pathogenesis of DV is complex and multifactorial, involving the interaction of many different cell types and a number of receptors. Macrophages are profoundly influenced by the cytokine profile in their immediate environment, and are therefore considered to be important targets of DV infection. The mannose receptor (MR) is a multifunctional cell surface receptor that can mediate DV binding to cells of the mononuclear phagocyte lineage, including macrophages. Here we show that MR binds to DV grown in mosquito cells and to recombinant mammalian cell–produced DV envelope glycoprotein. A recombinant MR fusion protein (CRD4–7-Fc) was shown to recognize DV envelope (E) protein in ELISA and blot overlays, and binding was inhibited by mannose, fucose and EDTA. The presence of MR on transfected cells is sufficient to confer DV binding. DV infection of monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMØ) was enhanced by IL-4 and IL-13, and the mechanisms underlying this increase are unknown. Antibodies specific for the MR significantly blocked both infection of MDMØ and the production of infectious virus in these cells. FACS analysis showed surface MR expression increased over 4-fold following IL-4 treatment of monocytes, corresponding with a similar fold increase in percent infected cells. Thus, the MR provides a potential link explaining the increase in MØ permissiveness to DV when stimulated by IL-4 or IL-13.
Neural systems must balance the need to respond to the environment with the need to maintain a stable internal state. Homeostatic mechanisms are thought to play an important role in such regulation, but the computational properties of these mechanisms have been poorly understood. Here we use a simple model of basic neural dynamics, coupled to a simple virtual environment, to explore the computational role of homeostatic mechanisms in maintaining flexible behavioral dynamics. We find that a model that incorporates local homeostatic plasticity can escape brain-environment feedback loops and explore more of the environment. In addition, we find that the presence of a macroscopic homeostatic mechanism, which balances activity across space, can further facilitate this process. This suggests that the brain may use a multi-scale architecture to maintain a stable internal state, which facilitates more flexible behavior.
Long-distance chromosomal interactions are best elucidated in certain genomic loci in multi-cellular organisms, yet their role in gene regulation is not clear. Here we set up an experimental scheme to screen for long-distance chromosomal interactions that affect the average level and noise of gene expression. We ectopically inserted an insulated reporter into thousands of genomic loci in yeast and measured the expression of the reporter in single cells. We identified a small fraction of loci that exhibit three distinct patterns of gene expression. We then thoroughly investigated the regulatory mechanisms that cause these changes. We showed that Sir-dependent silencing and transcriptional interference can repress gene expression to a comparable extent, but cause different levels of noise. We also found evidence that the reporter gene can acquire higher activity by clustering with a subset of co-regulated genes. The detailed mechanism underlying this clustering is not clear. Our results suggest that long-distance chromosomal interactions can affect gene expression in a sub-population of cells, and this effect is mediated by clustering of a subset of co-regulated genes.
Chiasmata are crossover-free recombination products that form between sister chromatids. Chiasmata are crucial for meiotic chromosome segregation, and their formation is regulated by a complex interplay of crossover interference and homologous chromosome pairing. Here, we demonstrate that Pch2, a protein involved in chromosome morphogenesis, is required for normal crossover interference and homologous chromosome pairing. Pch2 is required for establishment of a cytological marker for crossover formation and for normal chromosome pairing. Pch2 is also required for viable spore formation when recombination events are reduced, providing a mechanism for compensating for reduced recombination events. We propose a model in which meiotic chromosomes become organized into multiple modules of assured chiasma formation, with concurrent imposition of crossover interference. Pch2 is proposed to function as a size determinant for these modules.
The plant innate immune system is activated upon pathogen perception. How pathogen perception activates innate immune signaling and signaling overlap between plant innate immunity and effector-mediated disease resistance remains elusive. The Arabidopsis RIN4 protein is a negative regulator of both plant innate immunity and effector-mediated disease resistance. RIN4 is known to interact with RPS2, a key regulator of plant innate immunity. Here, we report the identification and characterization of the RIN4 protein complex. We were able to identify six novel RIN4 associated proteins and demonstrate that RIN4 interacts with the C-terminal regulatory domain of the plasma membrane H+-ATPases AHA1 and AHA2. We demonstrate that RIN4 can act to regulate the activity of plasma membrane H+-ATPases in planta and that RIN4 is expressed in guard cells. We show that RIN4 is necessary for the stomatal response to pathogen perception and that the rin4 knockout line cannot re-open its stomata after virulent bacterial infection. These results provide a molecular understanding of how RIN4 regulates plant innate immunity and how it interacts with plasma membrane H+-ATPases.
Vector control interventions are crucial for preventing the spread of mosquito-borne diseases (MBD). We evaluated the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of routine larviciding against Aedes (Stegomyia) albopictus in temperate climates for the prevention of chikungunya and dengue transmission. We used data from entomological surveillance in multiple sites from northern Italy to parametrize a mathematical model of mosquito population dynamics and control. The population model was coupled with a transmission dynamics model and a cost-effectiveness analysis to identify suitable routine vector control strategies for temperate climate municipalities in Europe. We found that the probability of autochthonous dengue transmission was low and limited to sporadic transmission in both years, because of the relatively low competence of European strains of Ae. albopictus. On the other hand, the risk of a chikungunya outbreak was estimated to be up to 30% in 2015, with a non-negligible probability of observing outbreaks larger than 50 cases in most sites. We found that the most effective interventions in reducing the amount of expected locally transmitted cases were those for which the window of larvicide efficacy covered at least the month of July. Larviciding reduced the probability of secondary cases only moderately, but it had an important impact in avoiding larger outbreaks. Our analysis included two seasons that were representative of a broad range of mosquito abundances, due to the remarkable temperature differences. The cost-effectiveness of larviciding depends on the actual mosquito abundance in a given year; however, general rules could be identified independently of the considered year: small villages (<10,000 inhabitants) with moderate-to-high mosquito abundances will maximally benefit of intense larviciding efforts made of season-round monthly treatment of public catch basins. For medium-sized towns (20–35,000 inhabitants) with high infestation rate, the benefits are partially offset by the higher cost of intervention; in these cases, a moderate larviciding effort (1 to 3 treatments within the season) is recommended. Larger cities in our study (>35,000 inhabitants) were characterized by a low or intermediate transmission risk, and the high costs of an intervention covering the entire urban area made it economically disadvantageous. In these situations, treating specific neighbourhoods with highest mosquito abundance (called ‘hot spot' approach) may be cost-effective. In order to evaluate such a scenario, however, it would be necessary to model the complex effect of the urban layout on the spatial distribution of breeding sites and on the dynamics of mosquito populations. Treatment of private breeding sites via the direct involvement of citizens by door-to-door visits was recommended only in small towns with high mosquito infestation. A survey on the allocated budget for mosquito control programs across different municipalities showed that expenses required for the most cost-effective interventions are sustainable for the considered area.
Rhinolophidae, echolocating bats specialized in hunting for airborne prey among vegetation, have been shown to use their ears to localize prey. However, the cues supporting their ability to navigate and avoid obstacles in complex environments remain largely unknown. In this paper, we propose a sensorimotor system that uses only the first millisecond of the echo train, the onset of the echoes, and the directional sensitivity of the ears to avoid obstacles. We show that this minimal set of cues is sufficient to avoid obstacles in both 2D and 3D environments. We simulate the sensorimotor system in 2D and 3D environments with obstacles generated by artificial and natural objects. Our results show that the proposed sensorimotor system can successfully avoid obstacles in both 2D and 3D environments.
The long-term evolution of metabolism is an open question. Here we explore a simple artificial chemistry that allows us to computationally identify minimal pathways that produce a given metabolite from a single available nutrient. We show that these pathways recur in a modular fashion, and that certain metabolic reactions are used repeatedly in multiple optimal pathways. We also find that the pathways in the artificial chemistry network exhibit a logarithmic length distribution, similar to that of real metabolic pathways. Finally, we show that some of the signatures of optimal pathways observed in the artificial chemistry can also be observed in real metabolic networks. These results suggest that fundamental optimality principles may have played a role in shaping biochemical networks.
Genetic data often exhibit spatial heterogeneity, reflecting variation in population sizes and migration rates across a landscape. Inferring such patterns can be important for understanding the evolution of species, and for conservation genetics. Here we present a method for inferring population sizes and migration rates across space and time periods from a genetic data set. The method is based on the stepping-stone model of population genetics, which we extend to allow for estimation of both population sizes and migration rates. We use this model to analyze a large-scale genotype data set of individuals from European ancestry. Our results show how the method can infer spatial patterns of gene flow and population size changes across time.
Insulin and its downstream signaling pathway IRS2 regulate metabolic processes in peripheral tissues, but their impact on the liver and the regulation of liver repair mechanisms is poorly understood. We therefore investigated the role of insulin/IRS2 signaling in the fibrotic stroma and in liver progenitor cells (LPCs) during chronic liver injury using a mouse model of chronic DDC feeding. We show that deletion of Irs2 impaired stromal expression of fibroblast growth factor 7 (Fgf7) and reduced hepatocyte-specific genes during chronic injury. In addition, Irs2 deletion delayed the parenchymal response to injury, as evidenced by reduced hepatocyte differentiation and re-epithelialization, which was accompanied by a delay in the induction of hepatocyte differentiation markers and fibrogenic reversion. We found that Irs2 was required for Fgf7 expression in fibrotic stroma and for Fgfr2-IIIb expression in LPCs, and that Fgf7/Fgfr2-IIIb signaling was required for hepatocyte differentiation of LPCs. In addition, we found that Fgf7/Fgfr2-IIIb signaling was also required for the induction of epithelial markers in LPCs. We also show that insulin/IRS2 signaling was required for the activation of fibrogenic reversion in fibrotic stroma and for the survival of fibrogenic stromal cells. Finally, we provide evidence that Irs2 regulates Fgf7 expression in LPCs via a paracrine feed-forward loop that potentiates Fgfr2-IIIb expression. These data support the hypothesis that insulin/IRS2 signaling is required for coordinating the liver’s repair mechanisms and suggest that defects in insulin sensitivity may exacerbate liver damage by reducing paracrine signaling between stroma and epithelia.
Dendritic arbor morphogenesis is a complex process that requires the coordinated activity of numerous cellular events that occur concomitantly at a distance from the neuronal cell body and integrate dramatic membrane extension, local protein translation and processing, vesicular transport, shifts in cytoskeleton dynamics and elevated metabolic activity. How neurons control these various processes at the genetic and molecular level remains only partially understood. Here we show that the inositol-requiring enzyme 1 (IRE-1) of the unfolded protein response (UPR) is required for dendrite morphogenesis in the polymodal sensory neuron PVD of Caenorhabditis elegans. In ire-1 mutants, DMA-1, a leucine rich repeat transmembrane receptor, fails to shuttle properly through the secretory pathway, resulting in patterning defects of higher order branches of the PVD dendrite. In addition, we show that the UPR pathway can be bypassed by reducing insulin/IGF1 signaling to restore normal arbor architecture. Altogether, our work assigns a conserved role for IRE-1 function in neuronal development and demonstrates that activation of alternative ER homeostasis-promoting pathways can counteract and prevent the deleterious consequences of compromised ER homeostasis on neuronal development.
The ArcAB two component system is a global redox sensor that coordinates the expression of genes involved in carbon oxidation in Escherichia coli. Although the ArcAB system has been well characterized, the extent of its regulatory function is only partially understood. Here, we mapped 176 ArcA binding regions across the E. coli genome and used a combination of genome-wide approaches to determine the mechanism of ArcA DNA binding and transcriptional regulation. We found that ArcA binding sites are often composed of multiple direct repeat elements, and that the number, spacing and strength of these repeat elements are important for the regulation of transcription. We also found that ArcA directly regulates the expression of nearly 100 operons and is predominantly a repressor of genes encoding enzymes associated with carbon oxidation pathways. Our results indicate that ArcA reprograms metabolism by either directly or indirectly repressing expression of nearly all pathways for carbon sources whose oxidation is coupled to aerobic respiration. This function of ArcA exhibits parallels to carbon catabolite repression in that it is another mechanism for selective carbon source utilization in cells.
The hypothalamic-pituitary axis regulates stress responses, growth, reproduction, and energy homeostasis. Pituitary tumors are benign, but if untreated, they are associated with increased morbidity and mortality due to tumor mass effect and/or hormonal disruptions leading to serious complications such as acromegaly and Cushing's disease. How developmental or acquired signals elicit plastic change in pituitary cell growth resulting in hyperplasia or benign adenomas is not fully understood. Here, we describe a novel role of a zebrafish splicing factor, usp39, in regulating pituitary development. Using a forward genetics screen for novel zebrafish genes regulating adenohypophyseal pomc gene expression, we identified and characterized a mutant that harbors a nonsense mutation in usp39, leading to expansion of all adenohypophyseal cell lineages. We show that usp39 regulates rb1 expression and contributes to pituitary cell lineage expansion. We further show that usp39 regulates expression of key cell cycle regulators, including e2f4, rbl2 (p130), and cdkn1a (p21), which may contribute to pituitary cell proliferation and lineage expansion. Our findings indicate that usp39 plays an important role in pituitary development by regulating rb1 and e2f4. Loss of usp39 leads to pituitary cell lineage expansion through rb1 downregulation due to a splicing defect. In addition, e2f4 overexpression contributes to increased pituitary cell mass, likely as a result of increased terminal differentiation or proliferation. Our studies reveal a novel role of usp39-mediated mRNA splicing of rb1 in pituitary cell growth control, which is critical for maintaining embryonic pituitary homeostasis.
Congenital cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection of the developing brain is associated with altered cerebellar development in infants. In this study, we have developed a mouse model of CMV infection of the developing cerebellum that exhibits focal encephalitis and a focal cerebellar lesion without specific cellular tropism. We have demonstrated that this model is dependent on virus replication in the periphery and infection of the cerebral cortex. The cerebellar lesion in infected animals is characterized by altered development of the cerebellar cortex, including delayed foliation, increased thickness of the external granular layer and abnormalities in the morphogenesis of the molecular layer. We have also demonstrated that these abnormalities are associated with increased levels of proinflammatory cytokines in the cerebellum of infected animals. Treatment of infected animals with corticosteroids normalized the expression of these cytokines, the cerebellar lesion and the abnormalities in cerebellar development. Our findings suggest that altered development of the cerebellum in CMV infected infants is associated with an inflammatory response in the developing brain.
Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) are the most common cause of diarrheal illness in developing countries. A broadly protective vaccine against ETEC is a high priority. Recently, immunoproteomic studies identified the E. coli autotransporter (AT) protein EatA as a novel candidate for ETEC vaccine development. To determine if other conserved ATs might serve as useful vaccine targets, we have identified a number of highly conserved autotransporters in ETEC genomes, including the passenger domains of the autotransporter (AT) proteins Ag43 and pAT. These proteins are exported to the bacterial surface, and are recognized during the course of both experimental and natural ETEC infections. Immunization with either of the passenger domains for Ag43 or pAT resulted in significant increases in fecal IgA directed at the respective antigens, and provided significant protection against subsequent colonization with ETEC. These studies suggest that the passenger domains of these autotransporters are recognized during the course of both experimental and natural ETEC infections, and support the concept that these molecules could serve as protective antigens.
Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever (CCHF) is a severe and often fatal viral disease. The virus is transmitted by Hyalomma ticks and has the greatest geographic range of any tick-borne virus. CCHFV has been reported in many countries, but there is little data on the prevalent clades of CCHFV in the Arabian Peninsula. We report the clinical and epidemiological features of 88 patients with CCHF diagnosed in Oman between 1995 and 2017. Partial and complete sequence analysis of the small segment of CCHFV isolates from 12 patients in 2013 and 2014 was performed. In total, 88 patients were diagnosed with CCHF, with 82 confirmed by RT-PCR and 4 by CCHFV IgM. The patients had a median age of 33 (15–68) years and 79 (90%) were male. The most common nationality affected was Omani 51 (59%) followed by Bangladeshi 18 (21%), Pakistani 7 (8%), Yemeni 3 (4%), Indian 4 (5%), Somali 2, and Sri Lankan 1. Cases occurred in all governorates (wilayats) except Musandam and Al Wustah. The main exposure risk identified was animal/fresh tissue exposure in 73/88 (83%), with only 1 case attributed to tick bite alone. Diagnosis was confirmed by RT-PCR in 82 (93.2%) cases and by serology alone in 4 (4.5%). Stored viral RNA from 12 patients presenting in 2013 and 2014 was sequenced for the entire S segment ORF of each of the 12 samples, all grouped in the Asia 1 (IV) clade. The cumulative mortality was 36.4%, and no cases of healthcare related or intrafamilial spread of infection were reported. This is the largest series of cases of CCHF reported from a GCC country, and provides the first data about locally prevalent strains of CCHFV in almost 20 years.
We have developed a genetic tug-of-war (gTOW) technique to measure cellular robustness against overexpression of target genes. Using gTOW, we measured the copy number limit of overexpression of 30 cell cycle-related genes in the budding yeast, and found that robustness against overexpression of certain genes was different from the prediction of Chen's model. We observed that robustness against overexpression of CDC14 was low (<2), but robustness against overexpression of ESP1 was high (>160). We found that fragility arising from dosage imbalance between Cdc14 and Net1, and robustness against overexpression of ESP1 were masked by other cellular components. We thus suggest that cellular robustness against dosage imbalance is a common phenomenon in cellular systems. Moreover, we propose that the robustness against dosage imbalance is advantageous for a cell because it allows for precise control of cellular functions.
The interleukin 4 (IL-4) receptor alpha subunit (STAT6) is a key transcription factor in the signaling of IL-4 and IL-13. In addition, STAT6 is also involved in the regulation of extracellular cytokines and viral infection. Recently, we found that the viral oncogenic protein Kaposi’s sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) can induce the phosphorylation of STAT6 on tyrosine 641 (Y641) to promote cell proliferation and maintain latency. In this study, we found that RTA, a viral transcription factor encoded by KSHV, interacts with STAT6 and induces its degradation for the reactivation of the KSHV lytic cycle. The degradation of STAT6 was dependent on the K48- and K63-linked ubiquitylation via the proteasome and lysosome pathways. Interestingly, RTA also induced the ubiquitylated form of tripartite motif family like 2 (TRIML2), a p53-associated tumor suppressor. Consistently, TRIML2 expression was dramatically upregulated in the reactivation of the lytic cycle of KSHV, EBV, HCMV, and HSV1, indicating that STAT6 degradation and TRIML2 ubiquitylation are required for the reactivation of the lytic cycle. Moreover, STAT6 degradation was also observed in the early stage of primary infection with KSHV, HSV1, and HCMV. In contrast, STAT6 was not degraded in the lytic cycle of HSV1. Our study revealed a novel mechanism for KSHV and other herpesviruses to regulate the lytic cycle through the degradation of STAT6.
In recent years, dengue virus (DENV) transmission has increased in Bangladesh. In this study, we determined the magnitude of DENV seroprevalence and seroconversion (i.e., recent infection) among the residents of Dhaka, Bangladesh, the most endemic urban area of the country. The study was a prospective cohort study involving a baseline serosurvey of 1,200 individuals during the pre-monsoon season of 2012 and a follow-up serosurvey during the post-monsoon season (November 2012). Serum samples were collected from 1,125 participants during the pre-monsoon and 600 participants during the post-monsoon. DENV antibodies were determined by ELISA, and DENV neutralizing antibodies by plaque reduction neutralization tests (PRNT). In addition, a multivariate logistic regression model was applied to identify the socioeconomic and demographic factors associated with seroprevalence and seroconversion. The overall DENV IgG seroprevalence was 80% (900/1125), and seroconversion was observed in 57.7% (56/97) of participants. In the pre-monsoon serosurvey, 83.1% (833/1003) of adults and 54.9% (67/122) of children had DENV IgG antibodies. During the post-monsoon survey, the overall seroprevalence increased from 83.8% (503/600) to 93% (559/600) indicating a significant increase in the magnitude of DENV circulation. The high degree of seroconversion among both children and adults during the 2012 pre- and post-monsoon periods indicate intense circulation and transmission of DENV during the study period. The documented seroconversion observed in this study indicates that DENV circulated at a high intensity during the 2012 monsoon season, however, many, if not most, of the infections might have been mild or even asymptomatic. The high seroprevalence in Dhaka should also be regarded as an indicator of significant unreported dengue virus-associated illness.
Sporulation is a complex developmental program that allows bacteria to produce spores that can survive in adverse conditions. In Bacillus subtilis, the main regulator of sporulation is the sigma factor σK, which is activated only after engulfment of the forespore by the mother cell. In Clostridium difficile, the main sigma factor is σG, which is activated after engulfment, and σK is activated only after engulfment completion. While the activation of σK is crucial for proper sporulation, the precise molecular mechanisms controlling σK activation are not yet known. Here, we show that the sigma factor σK is activated in C. difficile cells before engulfment completion. This early activation is dependent on the expression of CD1231, a recombinase that excise the skinCd element from the chromosome, and on the expression of CD1234, a recombinase that is required for CD1231-mediated skinCd excision. Importantly, CD1234 is expressed in the vegetative cell compartment, and in the forespore. Thus, σK activity is not restricted to the mother cell, but is controlled by the temporal compartmentalization of sigma factor activity, in parallel to the compartmentalization of gene expression. The premature activation of σK in C. difficile sporangia leads to alterations in the assembly of the spore surface layers, and in the morphology of the spores.
Shotgun metagenomics is a powerful tool for characterizing the human microbiome. We developed a software framework for quantitative analysis of shotgun metagenomic data for disease-related prediction tasks. We evaluated the predictive power of metagenomic data in linking the gut microbiome with disease states, and we investigated the generalization of the model across different studies, independent datasets, and across different disease states. We also investigated the use of strain-specific markers as features for disease prediction. We evaluated classification performance using cross-validation and cross-study validation. We also investigated the predictive power of the microbiome for predicting gender and body site. We developed a publicly available software framework, MetAML, and made publicly available microbiome profiles for thousands of samples. The MetAML framework provides a systematic and non-overfitted approach to metagenomic data analysis and can be used to evaluate the predictive power of metagenomic data for different disease-related prediction tasks.
The clinical course of HIV-1 infection is characterized by considerable variability in the rate of disease progression among patients with different genetic background. HLA-B*5701 is the host factor most strongly associated with slow HIV-1 disease progression. The molecular mechanisms underlying differential risk of disease progression are not fully understood and likely involve both viral dynamics and host immune system. Here, we investigate the relationship between HIV-1 evolutionary rate and disease progression in HLA-B*5701 subjects. Longitudinally sampled HIV-1 gag p24 sequences from six HIV-1 infected subjects carrying the HLA-B*5701 allele were analyzed using a Bayesian molecular clock approach. Viral replication capacity, immune activation, and clinical parameters were also measured for each patient. The analysis revealed that the virus infecting HLA-B*5701 subjects with high baseline CD4+ T cell counts displayed a lower evolutionary rate than the virus infecting subjects with lower baseline CD4+ T cell counts. This observation was linked to a higher rate of synonymous substitutions, which are directly proportional to the viral replication rate. In particular, a strong inverse correlation between baseline CD4+ T cell count and average synonymous substitution rates along branches representing lineages effectively propagating through time was observed. These results provide a possible evolutionary mechanism for different risk of disease progression in HLA-B*5701 subjects and suggest that synonymous substitutions, which are proportional to in vivo replication rates, could be used as a novel evolutionary marker of disease progression.
Inhibition of choline analogs towards protozoan parasites has been shown to be effective in treating sleeping sickness and malaria. However, the targets of these drugs are unknown. Here, we used an RNAi library in Trypanosoma brucei bloodstream forms to identify genes involved in drug resistance. We found that expression of a gene encoding a member of the mitochondrial carrier protein family, TbMCP14, was down-regulated in parasites selected by choline analogs. In addition, over-expression of TbMCP14 in parasites resulted in increased susceptibility towards choline analogs. TbMCP14 was also required for normal growth of both bloodstream and procyclic forms of T. brucei. Depletion of TbMCP14 in conditional knock-out parasites resulted in reduced parasite proliferation under standard culture conditions, but the growth defect was more pronounced in parasites cultured in glucose-depleted medium. In addition, depletion of TbMCP14 resulted in reduced proline-dependent ATP production in mitochondria. These results demonstrate that TbMCP14 is involved in drug action, and that it is also involved in proline metabolism.
Bombesin receptor subtype-3 (BRS3) is a classic orphan G protein-coupled receptor, and it is considered to be the most well-studied orphan GPCR. BRS3 is a G protein-coupled receptor that is coevolved with its endogenous ligands, neurotensin-like peptides (NMBR/GRP), and the orphan GPCR is considered to be activated by a naturally occurring peptide ligand. However, many synthetic ligands have been designed for BRS3, and it is still unclear whether the ligands are endogenous or not. Here, we identified the first example that might represent a new group of GPCRs that will never be deorphanized by the discovery of a natural ligand and will remain genuinely orphan GPCRs that function constitutively in a ligand-independent manner. We found that the BRS3 in placental mammals underwent positive selection to lose the connection with its original ligands and became constitutively active. Our results provided new perspectives in addition to the current ligand-driven GPCR deorphanization.
Sleep is an intriguing phenomenon which has been studied in various species and is also an important aspect of human health. However, the accuracy of automated sleep scoring has been a challenging problem. Here, we present a novel framework SPINDLE (Sleep Phase Identification with Neural networks for Domain-invariant LEearning) that uses end-to-end deep neural networks to classify sleep states in rodents. SPINDLE combines the robustness of convolutional neural networks (CNNs) with the ability of a hidden Markov model (HMM) to suppress physiologically impossible transitions between vigilance states. The framework is trained on a dataset of 2 wildtype mice and is then evaluated on 20 recordings from 4 animal cohorts of 12 mice and 8 rats. Our evaluation shows that the performance of SPINDLE is as good as that of human experts. SPINDLE is the first fully automated sleep scoring method which generalizes across animals from different experimental settings and labs.
Toxoplasma gondii is a protozoan parasite causing disease in humans and animals. It is also a promising target for the development of novel antimalarial drugs. We have previously shown that T. gondii lacks the mevalonate pathway for the synthesis of isoprenoid precursors but is able to synthesize isoprenoids using the host mevalonate pathway. Here we show that inhibition of host mevalonate pathway by statins enhances the inhibition of the parasite pathway. We also show that the parasite is able to salvage some isoprenoid intermediates from the host while depending on its own synthetic machinery for others. Our results reveal a metabolic exchange between host and parasite that quite likely also occurs in other intracellular parasites. We propose a double-hit strategy combining inhibitors of both host (statins) and parasite (bisphosphonates) pathways. This strategy will allow leveraging the extensive clinical experience gained with statins towards the treatment of infections and potentially adapt it to other intracellular parasites.
The Sigatoka disease complex on banana is caused by three closely related species of the Dothideomycetes, namely Pseudocercospora fijiensis, P. musae, and P. eumusae. These pathogens have recently emerged in banana production areas worldwide, causing significant losses to banana production. Despite their close evolutionary relationships and similar biology on their banana host, clear differences in virulence exist amongst them, which correlate with their historical record of appearance. Here, we used comparative and evolutionary genomics in order to understand the evolutionary trends and genomic modifications associated with shifts in virulence spectra among the three pathogens, and to further identify their pathogenic core that can be exploited in disease management programs. We used whole-genome shotgun sequencing of P. musae and P. eumusae to compare them with the recently determined 74.1 Mb genome sequence of P. fijiensis. Genome-wide molecular selection analysis revealed that changes in virulence are mainly facilitated by adaptive evolution of the core genome rather than species-specific gene acquisitions and losses. Overall, our analysis identified a significant amount of species-specific adaptations, but also revealed convergent patterns of evolution in the two more aggressive pathogens, suggesting that the evolution of virulence in these pathogens is facilitated by a number of species-specific adaptations.
Leishmania infantum is the etiological agent of visceral leishmaniasis (VL), which is a neglected disease of great public health importance. The molecular mechanisms underlying pathogenesis and protection of VL remain poorly understood. We evaluated expression of 17,105 probes from whole blood of patients with active VL, patients under remission of disease, healthy individuals that exhibited a positive delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH) to leishmanial antigens, and uninfected controls. Gene expression profiles were evaluated using linear models and differential expression analysis. Pathway analysis was performed with GeneGo MetaCore, while weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was used to identify modules of genes. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was used to evaluate the association of transcriptional profiles with distinct clinical-epidemiologic groups. We identified distinct transcriptional signatures associated with distinct states of infection with L. infantum, whereby the transcriptional profiles of patients under remission of disease and asymptomatic individuals were associated with a positive regulation of genes related to Notch signaling pathway and TCR signaling, whereas the transcriptional profiles of patients with active VL were associated with a negative regulation of genes related to innate immune response. Those results indicate that the innate immune response is mainly down-regulated in patients with active VL, while treatment might trigger the activation of Notch signaling pathway and increase the transcriptional activity of genes related to B lymphocytes.
Social conflict between individuals of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is a key driver of the evolution of cooperation. However, the mechanistic basis of social conflict in this system is unknown. Here we show that apparent partner-specific social behavior in D. discoideum can be generated by a simple mechanism based on the production and response to a set of diffusible signaling molecules that govern developmental differentiation. This system predicts the social behavior of genotypes and accurately predicts the observed social behavior of natural isolates. We further show that a single gene mutation can generate a wide range of social behaviors, including partner-specific shifts in spore allocation, and that this mutation can be used to generate a facultative shift in social behavior. Our findings therefore provide a novel solution to the generation of complex social behavior, in this case based on the production and response to a simple social signal.
The localization of mRNAs to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is essential for the proper function of the cell. However, the mechanism by which this occurs remains unclear. Here, we show that mRNAs encoding secreted proteins (membrane and soluble secretome proteins) are enriched with a repetitive sequence element (SECReTE) that is conserved throughout evolution from yeast to humans. SECReTE is a ≥10 nucleotide triplet sequence that is enriched in secretome mRNAs. SECReTE is also present in prokaryotic genomes, where it is enriched in the 3’UTR of secretome transcripts. SECReTE enrichment is not arbitrary and is independent of codon composition. SECReTE enrichment in secretome mRNAs leads to increased protein production and secretion, as well as enhanced localization of secretome mRNAs to the ER. Our findings suggest that SECReTE plays an important role in the regulation of secretion.
Aedes aegypti is the primary vector of dengue, chikungunya, and yellow fever viruses in tropical and sub-tropical regions of the world. In 2013, A. aegypti was detected in California, and in 2016, it was found in Florida. Here, we use genetic markers to determine whether A. aegypti populations in California originated from a single or multiple introductions, and to characterize the genetic structure of California populations. We analyzed 286 whole adult mosquitoes from 12 sites in California and 16 sites from across the southern United States and northern Mexico. We used whole genome sequencing to genotype 50,000 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and 12 highly variable microsatellites. We also used microsatellite data to infer demographic history and estimate relevant parameters using Approximate Bayesian Computation methods. We found clear genetic differentiation between the Northern and Southern CA populations, and found support for the hypothesis that at least two introductions of A. aegypti into CA are responsible for the current populations within the state. The genetic structure of CA A. aegypti populations is consistent with the hypothesis that the vector was present in CA for years before its first detection in 2013. We also found that the genetic structure of CA populations is not consistent with extensive gene flow among populations, which suggests that effective vector control may be more challenging in CA than previously thought.
Rhodococcus species are oleaginous, chemoheterotrophic bacteria that have been isolated from soil and the rhizosphere of plants. These bacteria produce a high density of triacylglycerols (TAGs) that are stored in cell membranes and the extracellular matrix as wax esters. Rhodococcus species are able to catabolize a broad range of carbon sources and have been shown to use the carbon from cellulose for biosynthesis of the TAGs. We report the genome sequence of Rhodococcus opacus PD630 and its comparison to the closely related species R. jostii RHA1. Our genome-based model of Rhodococcus metabolism predicts the presence of a multifunctional fatty acid synthase (FAS) that biosynthesizes fatty acids from acetyl-CoA and malonyl-CoA. We identified a large number of genes encoding enzymes involved in fatty acid biosynthesis and catabolism. We also found that Rhodococcus species can catabolize and incorporate the carbon from carboxylic acids into fatty acids, producing straight-chain odd-carbon lipids. The Rhodococcus FAS type 1a enzyme catalyzes the first committed step in fatty acid biosynthesis and we propose that it is the initiating enzyme in the fatty acid biosynthesis pathway.
DNA sequences can be considered as a set of fixed-sized oligonucleotide frequencies, and the information potential in different oligonucleotide sizes can be measured. Here we investigated how oligonucleotide usage varies within and between prokaryotic genomes, and how biased oligonucleotide frequencies are. We used all available sequenced prokaryotic genomes up to September 2006, and found that coding regions were generally more homogeneous in terms of oligonucleotide usage than non-coding regions. We also found that AT rich genomes were more biased than GC rich genomes, and that the rate of variation in oligonucleotide frequencies within genomes was negatively correlated with mean genomic GC content.
In mammalian systems, the insertion of targeting vectors into a specific genomic location can result in unintended consequences such as the disruption of flanking genes. Here we report on the local effects of targeting two different targeting strategies, gene trap (TRAP) and deletion (DEL), on 44 targeted genes in 44 unique mouse lines. In general, DEL targeting had a much higher frequency of local effects than TRAP targeting. We found that 67% of the DEL mutants had at least one up- or down-regulated gene within 500 kb of the targeted gene, while 7% of the TRAP mutants had local effects. We found that 6.7% of the TRAP mutants had disrupted intragenic regulatory elements and 58.6% of the DEL mutants had disrupted intragenic regulatory elements. We also found that the local effects of targeting were not random, but were clustered around the targeted gene, and the frequency of local effects was much higher when the targeted gene was not expressed in that tissue. We also found that the targeting event had a much higher frequency of local effects in tissues where the targeted gene was not expressed. We conclude that targeting can have a high frequency of local effects on gene expression in mammals.
The mab-3/doublesex/dmrt1 gene orthologs are, among metazoans, the most evolutionary conserved key regulators of the earliest phases of gonad development. They control complex gene regulatory networks specifying male gonadal primordium development as well as gonadal maintenance. The dmrt1 gene is a transcriptional gatekeeper controlling mitosis versus meiosis decision in male germ cells. The dmrt1 gene in mammals is also required for the suppression of two ‘anti-testis’ pathways, Foxl2 and Wnt4/β-catenin (WNT4). Here, we show that the 11-nucleotide cis-regulatory D3U-box motif in the 3′ UTR of the dmrt1bY gene is a target for two antagonizing RNA binding proteins, Oryzias latipes CUG-binding protein (Ol-cug-bp) and Oryzias latipes Bicoid Stability Factor (Ol-bsf). Our data suggest that the D3U-box motif is—depending on the cellular context—targeted by 2 antagonizing RNA binding proteins, promoting either RNA stabilization in germ cells or degradation in the soma. This new mechanism of dmrt1 RNA stability appears to regulate also the abundance of other transcripts specifically expressed in PGCs, depending on the preservation of the D3U-box motif.
Mosquitoes are the main vectors of diseases that affect human health and the livestock. Eggs are the initial stage of mosquitoes and desiccation is a major factor in their development. Aedes aegypti, Culex quinquefasciatus and Anopheles aquasalis eggs are viable outside the water for 72, 5 and 24 hours, respectively. The eggshell pigmentation of these mosquitoes is darker than that of other mosquitoes. We investigated if the eggshell pigmentation is associated with the desiccation resistance of these eggs. We employed an An. quadrimaculatus mutant, which is dark brown and has a golden cuticle, as a tool to evaluate the impact of melanization on desiccation resistance. In this strain, the eggshell is not melanized and is not resistant to desiccation. We also used eggs from wild type An. quadrimaculatus, which present a dark brown cuticle and a dark brown eggshell. We found that, in this strain, the eggshell melanization is directly associated with the desiccation resistance, as eggs without melanization are more sensitive to desiccation. These results show that melanization is a relevant trait for desiccation resistance in mosquito eggs.
Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease that is endemic in many developing countries and is associated with increased susceptibility to immunodeficiency viruses. However, it remains controversial whether helminth infection increases susceptibility to de novo immunodeficiency virus infection in humans. We used rhesus macaques to evaluate the impact of schistosome infection on susceptibility to mucosal immunodeficiency virus infection. Schistosome-infected animals were exposed to SHIV-C intrarectally, and plasma and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) were collected for vRNA load determination. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were also analyzed by multi-color flow cytometry. Animals infected with schistosomes had a higher AID50 for SHIV-C (0.0014 ml) than parasite-free controls (0.025 ml, P<0.001). The mean peak vRNA load was >1 log higher in animals with acute schistosomiasis than in controls (P<0.001). Both vRNA levels and CD4+ T cell numbers were significantly elevated in schistosome-infected animals compared to controls (P<0.001). Schistosome-infected animals had more peripheral blood CD4+ central memory T cells than controls (P = 0.03). These results suggest that helminth infection increases host susceptibility to mucosal immunodeficiency virus transmission and accelerates loss of memory T cells. This study supports the hypothesis that control of helminth infections may favorably impact efforts to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS.
Developmental reproducibility is a key issue in the study of developmental biology. To clarify the mechanism of developmental reproducibility against the intrinsic noise of biochemical reactions, we developed a computational model of ERK-mediated somitogenesis. The model described the ERK activity in one-dimensionally arrayed PSM cells. ERK was regulated by several factors; namely, the FGF gradient, positive feedback, cell-cell interactions, and the clock. We investigated the effect of intrinsic noise on ERK-mediated somitogenesis. Even in the presence of the noise, the ERK activity border was generated and moved toward the posterior end in a stepwise manner, resulting in normal somitogenesis. We also investigated how somite reproducibility is generated against the noise. We found that the clock has two distinct roles in somitogenesis: temporal regulation of stepwise ERK shift, and improvement of ERK-mediated somitogenesis developmental reproducibility. In support of this, we also found that the noise-resistant reproducibility of somites increases by amplifying the clock signal.
Proteins are functional units of cells that are usually encoded by their 3D structure. The structural function of proteins is encoded by their dynamics under native state conditions. Oligomerization is a common feature of proteins, and their dynamics in oligomers may be affected by the assembly of the subunits. The aim of this work is to investigate the effect of oligomerization on the intrinsic dynamics of the component subunits and to what extent the different assembly geometries of the subunits affect the global modes of motion of the oligomers. We have studied the Amino Acid Kinases (AAK) family, in particular the hexameric Thermotoga maritima N-acetyl-L-glutamate kinase (TmNAGK) and the hexameric Escherichia coli UMP kinase (EcUMPK), as well as the monomeric and dimeric components of these enzymes. The intrinsic dynamics of the monomeric subunits is preserved in the oligomers, but the different assembly geometries of the monomers give rise to unique global modes of motion. We have examined the role of the interfacial contacts and overall assembly geometry in defining the most easily accessible collective modes of motion. We have also explored the effect of mutations at specific residues on the inter-subunit communication. The present study provides insights into the role of oligomerization in defining the collective dynamics of protein complexes and their functional mechanisms.
Rabies is a major zoonotic pathogen that is responsible for an estimated 55,000 deaths annually. Although it is the most important pathogen of domestic dogs, little is known about its spatial and temporal dynamics. We used a recently developed probabilistic approach to determine the spatial and temporal dynamics of dog rabies virus (RABV) transmission from a large-scale gene sequence study. We inferred the evolutionary history of 287 RABV sequences sampled from Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia and the Spanish territories from North Africa between 1986 and 2008. We estimated the timescale of this evolutionary history using a Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) approach, and the degree of spatial structure within each country using a modified Association Index. To analyze intra-country patterns of viral transmission in more detail, we considered a stochastic diffusion process among the 20 (Algeria) and 28 (Morocco) sampling localities for which most data were available. We quantified the degree of spatial admixture using a modified Association Index, and by summarizing the number of inferred transitions to each location within Algeria and Morocco. We also incorporated different potential predictors of RABV spread, such as geographical distances, human population size, road distances, a gravity model, and spatial accessibility. We estimated the rate of RABV gene flow among the sampled isolates using ‘Markov jump’ counts of location state transitions and their reward-associated distances between locations across each branch. Our analysis suggests that the human-mediated dispersal of rabid dogs is likely to continue to play a major role in the transmission of RABV in geographical areas where it has been present for many years.
The Brazil 2014 World Cup is one of the largest mass gatherings in the world. Dengue is a mosquito-borne viral disease predominantly spread by Aedes mosquitoes in tropical regions of the world. We used historical dengue surveillance data to estimate the risk of dengue during the World Cup. We found that this risk was low but varying across locations. We estimated the risk of dengue in game cities visited by tourists and basecamp cities where country teams will reside. We found that the risk was low but varying across locations. We also estimated the number of dengue cases that would be expected among tourists and teams. We estimate that between 26 and 53 symptomatic dengue cases would be expected among 600,000 tourists. This number ranged from a low of 4 to a high of 334 in the worst case scenario. The number of cases highly depended on the duration of stay among tourists. Based on game schedules, the highest number of cases would be expected among tourists from Germany, the US, Mexcio, and Colombia. We estimate that no cases would be expected among team players due the small number of exposed (23 per team). Even when we increased the team size to 500, the expected number of cases would only be two in the worst case scenario.
Thermogenic adipocytes are essential for the maintenance of energy homeostasis and for the prevention of obesity. Increased understanding of the molecular control of thermogenic adipocyte differentiation will provide valuable insights for the development of novel therapeutic strategies to treat metabolic disorders. In this study, we performed a comprehensive analysis of the transcriptome and epigenome during the process of murine brown adipogenesis. Using a combination of RNA-seq, ChIP-seq, and bioinformatics analysis, we identified a number of novel regulators of brown adipogenesis. We also identified the kinase PIM1 as a lineage-specific regulator of brown adipogenesis and a novel activator of thermogenic adipocyte differentiation. Through gain- and loss-of-function analyses, we validated that PIM1 is indeed required for thermogenic adipocyte differentiation in various cellular models including C3H10T1/2 cells, SVF cells from subcutaneous white adipose tissue and interscapular brown adipose tissue. We also identified the homeobox transcription factor Six1 as a novel regulator of brown adipogenesis and functionally validated that Six1 is required for the expression of brown cell marker genes and for the uncoupled respiration in thermogenic adipocytes. Finally, we identified a number of novel regulators for brown adipogenesis, including RREB1, SOX13 and SIX1. Our findings provide a comprehensive reference map for the dynamic epigenomic and transcriptomic transitions during brown adipogenesis and provide valuable insights into the molecular control of thermogenic adipocyte differentiation.
Paracoccidioidomycosis (PCM) is a neglected systemic fungal infection prevalent mostly in South America. Serological diagnosis is the gold standard for the diagnosis of PCM. However, the performance of the assays is not routinely checked, in part due to the lack of external standards. Only an internal positive control is used, which in most centers is a patient's serum with a known positive titer. Moreover, the few attempts put forward to standardize the routine serological methods used in PCM patients have not succeeded. One major reason is that the reference centers have been carrying out in house methodologies for many years with apparently satisfactory performances. In order to assess the performance of the serological diagnosis of PCM, we compared the results of the routine serological diagnosis of 30 sera from PCM patients provided by 6 reference centers in Brazil. The results showed a high rate of discordances among the centers, which could potentially lead to conflicting information regarding the patient's treatment. We suggest that an effort from the medical mycology community must be undertaken to improve better standardization of the serological diagnosis of this mycosis.
Hookworm-related cutaneous larva migrans (CLM) is a parasitic skin disease that is frequent in resource-poor communities in tropical and subtropical countries. CLM is characterized by pruritus, sleep disturbance, feeling of shame, and the need to dress differently. The psycho-social impact of CLM has not been studied. The objective of this study was to determine the degree of skin disease-associated life quality impairment in CLM patients in a resource-poor community in Manaus, Brazil. The study was carried out as a prospective study with active case detection. Ninety-one patients were included. The degree of skin disease-associated life quality impairment was determined semi-quantitatively using the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI). The mDLQI was categorised as follows: 0-2 points = no impairment, 3-4 points = mild impairment, 5-6 points = moderate impairment, 7-8 points = severe impairment. The median mDLQI score was 5 (IQR 3-8) at baseline. The mDLQI score correlated strongly with the severity of the infection (rho = 0.76; p<0.001) and the number of affected body areas (rho = 0.30; p = 0.004). After treatment with ivermectin, the median mDLQI score decreased to 1 (IQR 0-3) and 1 (IQR 0-1) for adults and children, respectively, and the majority of the patients (82%) reported a normalization of their skin disease-associated life quality. The degree of skin disease-associated life quality impairment was positively correlated with the severity of the infection, the number of body areas affected, and the presence of lesions at clearly visible body parts. In conclusion, CLM impairs the physical and mental wellbeing as well as social interaction of patients in a setting where skin disease-associated life quality is generally low. A single dose of ivermectin caused a complete resolution of the lesions within one month and restored skin disease-associated life quality to the normal level.
Visceral leishmaniasis is a neglected tropical disease that presents a complex dynamic influenced by socioeconomic factors such as poverty and limited access to health services. In Latin America the need to clarify some key aspects of leishmaniasis transmission and the failure of control programs together with the emergence of VL in new geographical areas in South America stress the importance of this observation. In Brazil between 1999 and 2014, 53,067 human cases were notified and currently represent around 95% of the cases notified in Latin America. Although the Brazilian northeast region is the most affected, recently VL has emerged in several areas of the Southeast region, an event associated mainly with the dispersion of populations of the Lu. longipalpis complex. Ecological differences in these populations could be associated with different epidemiological patterns of VL transmission as suggested by Casanova et al in relation to Sao Paulo State. Beside the prevalence of host infection and the presence of the susceptible population, the maintenance of transmission cycles is dependent on ecological parameters that act directly on vector capacity. In this work we have set out observations on the dispersal, population size, duration of gonotrophic cycle and estimated survival of a population of the Lu. longipalpis complex (S)-9-methylgermacrene-B) and analyzed the results in the light of their significance in relation to visceral leishmaniasis dynamics in a highly endemic area of VL in Brazil. We have estimated the population size, density per km2 and daily survival rate of the population. The population size ranged from 900 to 4,857 females. The daily survival rate ranged between 0.79 and 0.89. The population size and density per km2 were higher in the rainy season. The daily survival rate was higher in the first experiment (February) and lower in the September experiment. The population size and density per km2 were higher in the first experiment and lower in the September experiment. The daily survival rate was higher in the first experiment and lower in the September experiment. Our findings related to the population’s daily survival rate provide the first published information on Neotropical species involved in the transmission of the agent of VL in the Americas. Some prevention and control measures aiming at the decrease of vector density, such as environmental management and reduction of the vector survival rate by the use of insecticide impregnated collars or topical products on the canine population are strongly to be recommended. Our observation is of great value in the evaluation of control measures and in the development of mathematical models of VL dynamics.
Enteropathogenic and enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EPEC) infect the intestinal epithelium, forming typical attaching and effacing (AE) lesions. EPEC subvert host cell processes, such as inflammation, to facilitate colonization. The intimate attachment of EPEC to the epithelium is mediated by the type three secretion system (TTSS) apparatus. The TTSS is composed of a translocator (Tir), an effector receptor (Tir), and effectors. Here we show that while infection with wild type EPEC leads to repression of NF-κB signaling, strong NF-κB activation in cells infected with an EPEC mutant deleted of the nleB, nleC, nleD effector genes was observed. Furthermore, this NF-κB activation is TTSS-dependent. Investigation of the basis for this activation suggests that epithelial cells can sense the active TTSS apparatus per se and respond by triggering a novel signaling pathway, resulting in NF-κB activation.
The RNA recognition motif (RRM) is a family of eukaryotic RNA-binding proteins that play a central role in post-transcriptional gene regulation. The Rbfox RRM protein is a tissue-specific alternative splicing regulator, which is part of a small family of RRMs that binds with high sequence specificity to a target RNA. The Rbfox protein is engineered to bind with high affinity to the pre-miR20b hairpin precursor of the oncogenic miR107 and miR20b (pre-miR21). Here, we present a detailed analysis of the Rbfox•pre-miR20b complex using molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. We show that the binding interface is stabilized by a network of stacking and hydrogen bonds, and that the protein’s backbone and the RNA’s base-step dynamics are highly flexible. We predict the structure of the Rbfox*•pre-miR20b* mutant, which has been shown to bind to pre-miR21 with higher affinity than wild type Rbfox•pre-miR20b. We also design a mutant (S151T) that is predicted to be even more specific for the pre-miR21 target RNA. Our results provide a detailed picture of the Rbfox•pre-miR20b complex, and suggest a new mutant that may be more specific for the target RNA.
Schistosomes are helminths that survive in the host’s bloodstream for decades. To date, the proteases of S. mansoni have been largely investigated as potential drug targets. Here, we report the first biochemical and enzymatic characterization of Schistosoma mansoni serine protease 2 (SmSP2). SmSP2 is the most abundantly expressed serine protease in the blood-dwelling stages of the parasite and is the most abundantly expressed serine protease in the adult worms. SmSP2 is a trypsin-like serine protease with a unique domain organization. In vitro, SmSP2 cleaves various peptide substrates in an endopeptidolytic mode at the carboxyl terminus of Arg or Lys residues. The cleavage specificity of SmSP2 is similar to that of trypsin and it is inhibited by inhibitors of trypsin-like proteases. SmSP2 processes several physiologically-relevant host proteins including fibronectin, activates plasminogen to plasmin and tPA, and releases bradykinin from its precursor high molecular weight kininogen. These findings indicate that SmSP2 is a protease of S. mansoni that is involved in parasite survival and pathogenesis.
Human CMV (HCMV) is a common human pathogen that induces a robust γδ T cell response in immunosuppressed individuals. However, their role in protection and specific contribution within the global anti-CMV immune response have not been firmly established. Herein, we show that γδ T cells are as competent as αβ T cells to control MCMV infection and protect mice from death. In mice, MCMV-specific αβ T cells control viral spread and protect infected mice from death. Unexpectedly, both TCRα−/− mice survived as long as CD3ε+/− control mice. These results reveal that the presence of either αβ or γδ T cell subset was sufficient to protect mice from MCMV infection. CD3ε−/− mice presented both liver and lung diseases, whereas TCRα−/− mice did not. Control of MCMV infection by γδ T cells in TCRα−/− mice is associated with a transient γδ T cell increase in the liver, and a delayed but strong and persistent expansion of γδ T cells in the lungs. γδ T cells development in CD3ε−/− mice was reconstituted by bone marrow (BM) transfer experiments using TCRα−/− mice as donors. γδ T cells isolated from TCRα−/− donors were sufficient to protect CD3ε−/− mice from MCMV infection. Finally, we show that γδ T cells exert their antiviral function by promoting NK cells accumulation. Our results open new perspectives for the use of the murine model of MCMV infection to define the precise mechanism of antiviral activity of γδ T cells and to develop new strategies to induce their activation in vivo.
Plasmodium parasites are responsible for the majority of malaria cases worldwide. Cysteine proteases are important for the parasite life cycle, and their activity is regulated by endogenously expressed protease inhibitors. Here, we have analyzed the function of the P. berghei cysteine protease inhibitor PbICP during the entire life cycle of the parasite. We found that PbICP is required for sporozoite invasion of salivary glands and hepatocytes, as well as for liver stage development. The deletion of pbicp in P. berghei led to a strong attenuation of parasite virulence in mice, confirming the important role of PbICP in Plasmodium invasion. Interestingly, PbICP-deficient parasites exhibited impaired gliding motility, which was linked to unregulated processing of the transmembrane protein TRAP. These findings demonstrate that PbICP is a key regulator of cysteine protease activity during different stages of the parasite life cycle and provide a new target for intervention strategies against malaria.
The histone variant H2A.Z is essential for mammalian development and is required for maintenance of the poised state at bivalent genes. The divergent acidic patch domain in H2A.Z is critical for its specialized functions, but its role in chromatin dynamics and gene regulation is poorly understood. Here we analyze the role of the divergent acidic patch in H2A.Z during mouse embryonic stem cell differentiation. We replaced the divergent acidic patch residues in H2A.Z with the equivalent residues from H2A and found that H2A.ZAP3 is less stably associated with chromatin and shows altered dynamics relative to H2A.Z. H2A.ZAP3 is enriched at bivalent promoters and is essential for maintaining the poised state. H2A.ZAP3 is also less dynamic in its incorporation and is more dynamic upon differentiation. Moreover, H2A.ZAP3 expression is altered upon flavopiridol treatment, suggesting that the unique acidic patch domain is linked to H2A.Z dynamics. Our work demonstrates that the divergent acidic patch domain is an important structural feature that mediates H2A.Z dynamics and is critical for proper induction of developmental gene expression programs during lineage commitment.
Stem cell lineage dynamics in vivo are studied by lineage tracing methods, which are dependent on the presence of specific stem cell markers. Our laboratory developed a method that utilizes somatic microsatellite (MS) mutations for reconstructing cell lineage trees. This retrospective method is based on the notion that somatic mutations accumulated during normal cell divisions endow each cell of the body with a genomic signature that, with very high probability, is unique. We applied our method to the intestinal epithelium, which is intensively studied by various tracing methods. We found that the colon is constituted by a few distinct progenitors and that there is no evidence for hematopoietic renewal of the intestinal epithelium during adulthood. Our findings indicate that the colon is constituted by a few distinct progenitors and that there is no evidence for hematopoietic renewal of the intestinal epithelium during adulthood. Our method was first used to confirm that monoclonal conversion occurs in crypt stem cells, and that these stem cells do not incorporate an immortal strand. We also confirmed the positive correlation between physical location of crypts and their lineage proximity. Our findings indicate that the colon is constituted by a few distinct progenitors and that there is no evidence for hematopoietic renewal of the intestinal epithelium during adulthood.
Antiretroviral therapy (ART) is a lifesaving and effective treatment for HIV. However, it cannot eliminate HIV producing cells from the body. Therefore, there is a critical need to identify and target HIV producing cells for destruction. Here, we evaluated the systemic impact of ART on HIV persistence in BLT humanized mice. We found that ART penetrates multiple tissues and reduces HIV vRNA levels to a plateau phase by Day 28 of treatment. The persistence of HIV producing cells was evaluated by in situ hybridization, RT-PCR, and quantitation of cell-associated vRNA. We found that HIV producing cells remained present throughout the body during ART. We then evaluated the efficacy of the immunotoxin 3B3-PE38 as a complement to ART for the depletion of HIV producing cells. We found that 3B3-PE38 reduced cell-associated vRNA levels and the number of vRNA producing cells in all tissues evaluated. In conclusion, our study demonstrates that the systemic impact of ART on HIV persistence in tissues is a critical component of the development of HIV eradication therapies.
Dengue is a major public health problem in many parts of the tropical developing world. Dengue is caused by infection with one of four serotypes of dengue virus (DENV1-4), which are arboviruses belonging to the Flaviviridae family. There are no licensed vaccines or specific antiviral therapies for dengue, and patient management relies on good supportive care. Prompt diagnosis of index cases can also facilitate vector control activities in the community so as to mitigate further transmission. The NS1 protein is a 55 kDa glycoprotein secreted by DENV infected cells in vitro and in vivo. The function of NS1 in viral replication is not well understood, other than it appears to be essential and might serve to anchor the replication complex to the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum. NS1 is postulated to contribute to the pathogenesis of dengue. First, in children elevated NS1 plasma concentrations early in illness are associated with more severe disease, possibly reflecting higher viral burdens in these patients. The potential for early NS1 concentrations to predict clinical outcome has been postulated but not assessed. It has been suggested that high NS1 levels may activate complement in solution and/or by directly binding endothelial cells, and may establish foci for immune complex formation leading to complement activation, endothelial damage and capillary leakage. The availability of commercial ELISA assays to detect the DENV NS1 protein in acute plasma provides an additional dengue diagnostic tool to the existing approaches of PCR, serology and, less frequently, virus isolation. The purpose of the current study was two-fold. First, to assess the sensitivity and specificity of two commercial NS1 assays, the Platelia ELISA and a lateral flow rapid test (NS1-LFRT), in the context of different viral serotypes, viral burdens and clinical presentations in Vietnamese patients. Second, to assess the specificity of these NS1 assays in patients with other confirmed infections. Our findings suggest that both the Platelia ELISA and NS1-LFRT are specific tools for diagnosing acute dengue, though the sensitivity of both is influenced by the level of viraemia and host humoral immune response.
Rabies is a significant public health problem in Sub Saharan Africa (SSA). The most common route of transmission of rabies is through contact with infected dogs. Mass vaccination campaigns are the most effective way to eliminate rabies amongst humans and dogs. Mass dog vaccination campaigns have been shown to be most effective when a sufficiently high proportion of dogs are vaccinated. Static point vaccination stations (SPs) are a common strategy used to achieve this coverage. However, attendance at SPs is often suboptimal, resulting in lower than expected vaccination coverage. We aimed to investigate the reasons why attendance at SPs is suboptimal in SSA. We used data from a city-wide vaccination campaign in Blantyre, Malawi to investigate the relationship between distance to the nearest SP and attendance at SP. We also used data from a household questionnaire to investigate the factors which influence attendance at SPs. We used a multivariable logistic regression model to investigate the relationship between distance to the nearest SP and attendance at SP. We also used the model to investigate the impact of different factors on vaccination coverage. Our results show that distance from household is an important factor in attendance at SPs. We also found that socio-economic status, dog signalment, and owner’s ability to handle dogs are important factors in attendance at SPs. Our model shows that increasing distance from the nearest SP decreases the odds that a dog is taken to a SP for vaccination. We also found that dogs from areas with higher proportions of people living in poverty are more likely to be presented for vaccination. Our study highlights the importance of understanding more about which groups of people might be more inclined to bring their dog to a SP for vaccination. The only other study that has looked at this relationship has found no difference in vaccination coverage between households with high and low socio-economic status in rural Tanzania. Our study clearly demonstrates that the path distance is on average 50 per cent greater than the straight line distance in this setting. We also found that socio-economic status influenced attendance to SP vaccinations. Our model shows that dogs from areas with higher proportions of people living in poverty are more likely to be presented for vaccination. We also found that a lack of awareness of the vaccination programme was important despite high local profile within the local media, communities and schools. SP vaccination stations were advertised using posters and local radio during the weeks preceding the campaign and announced using a loud speaker in the communities around each station in the days before the actual vaccinating teams arrived at the SPs. Despite these efforts, the most common reason for not attending a SP quoted by the owners (27%) was that they did not know about it. In order to achieve greater coverage at SP this problem cannot be ignored. Promotional campaigns and rabies education work need to include information on how to safely handle and walk dogs. Such information might need to be provided throughout the year in order for the dogs to be more likely to be able to be handled at vaccination time.
Tsetse flies are the primary vectors of African trypanosomes, which cause human and animal African trypanosomiasis. To understand the molecular basis of transmission, it is important to understand the biology of the parasite in the vector. Here we report a comprehensive transcriptome analysis of the tsetse salivary gland (SG) during parasite infection. Our analysis revealed that parasite infection suppresses the expression of the abundant saliva proteins, including the major anticoagulant TTI, and drastically reduces the expression of immune-related proteins. In addition, we compared the transcriptome of the parasite during its development in the SG to that of the parasite in the mammalian blood stage. Our comparative analysis of the two datasets identified parasite-specific genes that are differentially expressed between the two hosts. The analysis revealed that parasite-specific genes that are differentially expressed in the SG and BSF are enriched for metabolic and surface coat protein shifts that may enable the adaptation of these two developmental forms to the varying immune and nutritional environment of their different hosts. Our data provide the first global insight into the many molecules involved in the tsetse-trypanosome interactions, and can now be followed through functional investigations.
Leishmaniasis is a neglected tropical disease that affects more than 12 million people annually and is caused by Leishmania parasites. The only drug available for the treatment of visceral leishmaniasis, miltefosine, has several limitations such as high cost, toxicity, and bioavailability issues. Natural products have been recognized as a rich source of novel leishmanicidal agents. Here, we identified four novel antileishmanial compounds from actinobacteria associated with Attine ants. The antileishmanial compounds were identified as mer-A2026B (1), piericidin-A1 (2), nigericin (3), and dinactin (4). Compounds 1 and 2 were also isolated from the organic extract of Atta sexdens worker ants. The compounds showed high antileishmanial activity against Leishmania donovani promastigotes (inhibition higher than 90%). Compounds 3 and 4 were also active against intracellular amastigotes. The selectivity index, which is the ratio between the activity against THP-1 macrophages and intracellular amastigotes, indicates their safety. This is the first report of the antileishmanial activity of antibiotics Mer-A2026B (1), piericidin-A1 (2), nigericin (3), and dinactin (4).
Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense is the causative agent of Human African Trypanosomiasis (HAT), also known as Sleeping Sickness. The sub-species is transmitted by tsetse flies, and is the most important parasitic disease in sub-Saharan Africa. HAT is endemic in East and Southern Africa, and is characterized by a high prevalence of severe disease in humans. The parasite has been described as clonal, with evidence of extensive inbreeding. However, there is controversy about the role of mating in natural populations of this sub-species. We have used microsatellite markers to genotype parasites isolated from three distinct foci of disease in East Africa, two in Uganda, and one in Malawi. The microsatellite loci were selected from a panel of genome wide markers, which had been used in the construction of the first genetic map of the parasite. The microsatellite loci were physically and genetically mapped to six different megabase chromosomes of T. brucei. Of the 198 samples, full multilocus genotypes (MLGs) were obtained for 176, with the remainder genotyped for at least four of the seven loci. There is significant genetic differentiation between the Malawi population and the Ugandan populations. The Ugandan populations could not be resolved with high confidence, although there is some support for the separation of the Ug/Ke 61–97 population from the Soroti and Tororo 2003 populations. Analysis of the genotypes from these populations at each locus, it is clear that six of the loci are predominantly heterozygous for two alleles while the remaining locus is largely homozygous (Ch4/M12C12). This genotypic structure precludes any meaningful analysis of linkage disequilibrium. The data also suggests that the genotypes present in the Ug/Ke 61–97 and Tororo 2003 populations are different. Analysis by Principal Component Analysis (PCA) of the MLGs (Fig. 2B) clearly shows that Soroti and Tororo (2003) populations are closely related to each other but both are more distinct from the Ug/Ke 61–97 population - the two co-ordinates account for 76% of the diversity within this dataset. Furthermore, the relative tightness of the clusters of genotypes from each population reflects the level of diversity within each, with Ug/Ke 61–97 showing a broader scatter reflecting its higher level of diversity. The most frequent MLG in the Soroti population (MLG 49) is not observed in the Tororo 2003 population but the two populations share MLGs 29 and 31 with the latter occurring once in Tororo but seven times in Soroti. This suggests that Soroti represents an off-shoot population that was established by a few founder individuals. The Malawi population, genetically diverse, displays allelic segregation in the population and there is limited LD consistent with frequent mating. This is the first time that this has been observed for T. b. rhodesiense in the field. Our results provide evidence that the causative agent of East African Sleeping Sickness, T. b. rhodesiense, can undergo genetic exchange in the field in Malawi, in contrast to previous studies that have described T. b. rhodesiense as a genetically homogeneous variant of T. b. brucei.
Spikes-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) is an unsupervised learning rule that changes synaptic strengths based on the relative timing of pre- and post-synaptic spikes. In a feed-forward network, STDP can select the axonal delays that are important for a network's response. In this study, we examined how STDP can select axonal delays in a recurrent network receiving oscillatory inputs. We considered a network of excitatory neurons with short dendritic delays and a range of axonal delays. We found that, after learning, the axonal delays were biased towards the axonal delay that was tuned to the frequency of the inputs. This delay selection was found to be independent of the frequency of the inputs and the time lag between the inputs. We extended the learning to networks receiving inputs with out-of-phase oscillations, where the axonal delays encoded the time lag between the inputs. We also considered how this learning could be extended to a network receiving inputs with multiple frequencies. We showed that the network became selective to the frequency of the inputs and the time lag between them. We also considered the role of dendritic delays in this delay selection and found that they were not required to be short. We showed that STDP can select axonal delays in a network receiving oscillatory inputs, and that this can lead to a frequency selective response. We also showed that the axonal delays selected can be used to encode the time lag between inputs. This study provides a mechanism by which the brain could encode information about the timing of stimuli, such as the pitch of a sound, through the recurrent connections in a network.
Leishmania infantum is the etiological agent of Zoonotic Visceral Leishmaniasis (ZVL) in humans and dogs. The main control strategy in ZVL endemic regions is the culling of sero-positive dogs. This method is highly controversial and the cost of the culling of sero-positive dogs is prohibitive for a large-scale intervention. In this study we used a mathematical model to evaluate the efficacy of community-wide use of systemic insecticides in dogs as a strategy to reduce the number of human infections with L. infantum causing ZVL cases in an endemic area. The model allowed us to estimate the minimum requirements of the systemic insecticide (efficacy and duration) and the intervention (dog treatment coverage) to significantly reduce L. infantum infections in humans. Our results indicate that the reduction in human infections would depend on the efficacy of the insecticide and the duration it remains effective. A systemic insecticide with an initial efficacy of 80% and 6.5 months above 65% would require a coverage of 60% to reduce the human infection incidence by 50%. The estimated reduction in human incidence in the baseline intervention model used in the sensitivity analysis was 50.3%.
Malaria is a major public health problem in tropical regions of the world. Plasmodium falciparum is the most virulent and accounts for the vast majority of deaths attributed to malaria. The blood stage of the parasite life cycle during which P. falciparum merozoites invade and multiply within host erythrocytes is critical for parasite survival and transmission. Invasion of erythrocytes by P. falciparum merozoites is a complex multi-step process that involves the sequential release of apical organelles such as micronemes and rhoptries. Here, we have investigated the regulation of apical organelle release during P. falciparum merozoite invasion. We demonstrate that exposure of merozoites to low potassium ion concentrations as found in blood plasma triggers a rise in cytosolic calcium levels and triggers the release of microneme proteins such as EBA175 to the merozoite surface. Following release to the merozoite surface, binding of EBA175 with its receptor, glycophorin A, restores basal cytosolic calcium levels and triggers the release of rhoptry proteins such as CLAG3.1 and PfRH2b. These observations provide a starting point for the analysis of signaling pathways involved in regulated secretion of apical organelles during invasion. A clear understanding of these pathways may provide novel targets for intervention since inhibition of apical organelle release will block invasion and limit blood-stage parasite multiplication.
The delivery of chemotherapy drugs is limited due to the heterogeneous tumor vasculature. It is suggested that vessel normalization can improve drug delivery by reducing interstitial fluid pressure. In this study, we investigate the benefit of vessel normalization in terms of drug delivery by using a mathematical model. We simulate tumor growth and vessel normalization in a 3-D tumor model. We investigate the impact of vessel normalization on the distribution of nanoparticles inside tumor using a 2-D vessel network. We show that vessel normalization enables the delivery of drugs deep into the tumor. The delivery benefit is underestimated in our model since we decrease blood perfusion as a part of antiangiogenic activity. However, in our previous study, we demonstrated that normalization can increase drug delivery in the interior regions of tumors of certain sizes. The results of our simulations show that vessel normalization can increase the delivery of chemotherapy drugs by restoring convective transportation. This study provides insight into the benefits of vessel normalization in terms of drug delivery.
HIV-1 dissemination through the host is dependent on DCs and their ability to capture and transfer HIV-1 particles to naïve T cells. DCs recognize HIV-1 particles through interaction with the glycoprotein gp120. However, recent studies have suggested that DCs also interact with HIV-1 particles through other mechanisms. In this report, we demonstrate that DCs interact with HIV-1 particles through the ganglioside, GM3 (α2,3-sialylated GSL), which is incorporated into the HIV-1 particle membrane. The ganglioside receptor, CD169, is the DC-receptor responsible for HIV-1 capture and trans infection. We also show that the type I IFN-inducible CD169 is required for HIV-1 capture and trans infection by mature DCs. Furthermore, CD169 is the receptor that mediates the ganglioside-dependent association of HIV-1 particles with DCs and results in virus localization at the DC – T cell infectious synapse. We also demonstrate that capture of HIV-1 particles by DCs is dependent on the presence of GSLs in the virus particle membrane. Finally, we show that capture of HIV-1 particles by murine DCs is also dependent on CD169. These findings suggest that HIV-1 has evolved to exploit the host cell-derived ganglioside, GM3, as a molecular mimicry mechanism to subvert DC-mediated immune responses.
Glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) are major components of cartilage matrix, and are also involved in developmental timing. Although mutations affecting GAG synthesis have been associated with various human diseases, the role of GAGs in skeletal development remains unclear. We isolated mutants in two genes, fam20b and xylt1, with defects in cartilage GAG synthesis in zebrafish, and examined their skeletal phenotypes. Increased perichondral bone and decreased cartilage matrix were observed in both fam20b and xylt1 mutants. Biochemical and ultrastructural analyses of mutant chondrocytes revealed premature cellular hallmarks of chondrocyte maturation and premature expression of chondrocyte maturation markers. Molecular analyses showed that fam20b and xylt1 mutations were caused by disruptions in the synthesis of chondroitin sulfate PGs (CSPGs), which are predominantly synthesized by the PG synthesis pathway. Increased perichondral bone in mutants resulted from premature chondrocyte maturation, which was caused by premature expression of chondrocyte maturation markers. We conclude that defects in CSPG synthesis accelerate developmental timing in vivo, which supports the notion that GAGs play a role in regulating skeletal development.
Severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome (SFTS) is a tick-borne zoonotic disease with a high mortality rate, caused by the SFTS virus (SFTSV). SFTSV is thought to circulate in an enzootic tick-vertebrate-tick cycle, but the natural reservoir, animal hosts and the mode of a vertical transmission for SFTSV have yet to be completely determined. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive survey to elucidate SFTSV ecology in ticks and small wild animals in the SFTS endemic area in Jiangsu province. We detected SFTSV-RNA in both feeding and questing Haemaphysalis longicornis and H. flava. Interestingly, viral RNA was identified in unfed larvae of H. longicornis, collected directly from the environment prior to a first blood meal, indicating that SFTSV could be vertically transmitted in nature. We also detected SFTSV-RNA in small wild mammals including Erinaceus europaeus and Sorex araneus, and detected viral antibodies in two migratory bird species, Anser cygnoides and Streptopelia chinensis. Our data provide evidence to show that small mammals such as Erinaceus europaeus and Sorex araneus, in which a prolonged infection may occur, can act as amplifying hosts for SFTSV. Antibodies against the virus were detected in migratory birds, suggesting that SFTSV could be transmitted long distances by birds through seasonal flyways. Our findings in this study will help formulate effective measures to deter the further spread of this deadly emerging pathogen.
Marine viruses are a major driver of ecological and evolutionary dynamics in the ocean. However, the molecular mechanisms that govern the host-virus interaction in the ocean are still poorly understood. Here, we applied single-cell transcriptomic analysis of Emiliania huxleyi populations to study the dynamics of host and virus gene expression during infection. We observed a high degree of cell-to-cell variability in the viral expression profiles and demonstrated that the initial host response to infection can be masked by conventional bulk expression analysis. We uncovered a novel phase of early host response to viral infection, which was not captured by bulk expression analysis. We also found that susceptible cells exhibited a unique metabolic profile that differs from that of resistant cells. Our results demonstrate the power of single-cell analysis in identifying new biomarkers of host-virus interaction and provide a new approach to understanding the host-virus co-existence in the ocean.
Cancer is characterized by dynamic changes in the protein interaction network (PIN). While PIN-induced changes in the expression of known functions can be assessed by comparing gene expression levels between normal and cancer tissues, the guilt-by-association principle suggests that a gene’s potential functional change can also be inferred from the changes in its neighborhood in the PIN. Here, we propose a novel method based on network diffusion to identify potential functional changes in a gene in cancer relative to normal tissue, and test for their association with patient survival. Using the HIPPIE PIN and the TCGA breast cancer dataset, we first infer a sample-specific PIN and then diffuse the functional information over the sample-specific PIN to estimate the activity of each gene. We then test for functional changes in cancer relative to normal tissues, and identify genes that gain or lose functions in cancer. We find that the genes that contribute to significant functional changes in cancer tend to exhibit elevated frequency of mutation, as well as copy number decrease, consistent with a role for mutation and copy number variation in the emergence of cancer. Furthermore, we show that the inferred functional change in cancer is also reflected in a consistent association with patient survival. Finally, we show that using a diffusion-based functional profile of a tumor provides a better prediction of patient survival and clinical subtypes than the standard alternative, where sample-specific functional activity is quantified based only on a priori annotated genes in each sample-specific PIN. Our overall strategy is to (1) project PIN onto each transcriptomic sample, (2) diffuse functions across the sample-specific PIN to estimate sample-specific function of each gene, and (3) analyze functional changes across conditions. This pipeline specifically aims to uncover significant PPI alterations in the functional neighborhood of a gene which may potentially alter its function.
Influenza A viruses (IAV) circulate in many different host species and subtypes co-circulate in wild bird populations. Re-infections with different subtypes are common in these birds and may influence viral transmission and the emergence of new subtypes. In this study, mallards were pre-challenged with H3N8 LPIAV and subsequently re-challenged with the same virus at different time intervals. Groups of ducks were subsequently re-challenged with different subtypes of H3N8 or with heterologous subtypes. All birds cleared infections rapidly. Re-exposures to the same subtype induced a partial protection against re-infection for up to 15 weeks post-challenge. Antibody responses were boosted after re-exposures and most individuals remained protected against homologous challenge. Antibody responses were also induced after heterologous challenge, with cross-reactivity between different subtypes. A partial protection was observed after heterologous re-challenge, with a lower viral load and shorter duration of infection. The results suggest that competition between different subtypes may occur in nature and that antibody responses induced by pre-exposure could influence the future recognition of viruses and the specificity of the responses.
Conjugation is the process by which a DNA element is transferred from a donor cell to a recipient cell. Conjugation is an important mechanism of horizontal gene transfer that has been studied extensively in Gram-negative bacteria. Little is known about conjugation systems present on Gram-positive bacteria. Here, we show that the conjugation genes of a Gram-positive bacterium, Bacillus subtilis, are repressed by an Xre-type repressor. Conjugation is activated by an anti-repressor encoded by the pLS20cat plasmid, and is relieved by a quorum-sensing peptide encoded by a downstream gene. The quorum-sensing peptide is an inhibitor of the anti-repressor and prevents conjugation at stationary growth phases. These results demonstrate that conjugation genes are regulated by a quorum-sensing mechanism, which is different from the mechanism controlling conjugation in Gram-negative bacteria.
The mosquito Aedes aegypti is the primary global vector of dengue virus (DENV). The susceptibility of A. aegypti to DENV is a complex trait that is influenced by multiple genetic loci. We conducted a comparative analysis of the global gene expression patterns of A. aegypti susceptible and refractory strains upon DENV infection. Our data shows that A. aegypti genes show transcriptional responses in a modular manner at early infection periods, wherein groups of genes are expressed in a tightly correlated manner. Our analysis further shows that specific biochemical pathways are enriched among these modularly expressed genes in the susceptible and refractory mosquitoes. The observed genome-wide transcriptional responses in A. aegypti upon DENV infection provide insights into the mechanisms of vector competence and the evolutionary complexity of mosquito defense against viral infection.
The co-endemicity of loiasis with onchocerciasis in some forest areas of West and Central Africa has led to the use of ivermectin for onchocerciasis control. However, ivermectin has been associated with severe adverse events in individuals harbouring high densities of Loa loa microfilariae in their blood. The impact of large-scale ivermectin treatment on the parasitological indicators of loiasis in onchocerciasis-loiasis co-endemic areas has not been reported. This study aimed to assess the impact of ivermectin on the parasitological indicators of loiasis in areas of co-endemicity with onchocerciasis. A cross-sectional survey of 3,684 individuals in 36 communities of the three Community Directed Treatment with Ivermectin (CDTI) projects of Cameroon and 900 in 9 non-CDTI communities. Ivermectin treatment history was assessed by oral declarations and the number of times an individual had taken ivermectin since the inception of the CDTI project in his/her community. Blood samples were examined for microfilariae using a thick blood film. The parasitological indicators of loiasis were generated as the proportion of individuals with microfilariae in their blood, and the prevalence of low to moderate and high microfilariae loads (1–8,000 mf/ml). The relationship between adherence to ivermectin treatment and the prevalence/intensity of L. loa microfilariae was investigated. The impact of ivermectin MDA on the reduction of potential risk of developing severe adverse events (SAEs) was also evaluated. The prevalence of individuals with high microfilariae (among adults) in the East, Northwest and Southwest CDTI projects, after 10 years of CDTI, was 1.2%, 2.3% and 0.7% respectively. The prevalence of individuals with very high microfilariae (among adults) was 0.6%, 0.8% and 0.11% respectively. The proportion of individuals with high microfilariae load (among adults) was reduced by 73.6%, 59.7% and 20% in the East, Northwest and Southwest respectively. The proportion of individuals with very high microfilariae load was reduced by 40%, 75.8% and 50% in the respective sites. The prevalence of high and very high microfilariae loads in children of the East region was 3.4% and 1.0% respectively. The proportion of children with high microfilariae load was reduced to 0% in the East CDTI project after 10 years of ivermectin treatment. The proportion of children with very high microfilariae load was reduced to 0% in the East CDTI project after 10 years of treatment. The reduction of the potential risk of developing non-neurological and neurological complications in the populations of the CDTI projects seems to be one of the major benefits of ivermectin MDA on L. loa. The adherence to ivermectin treatment is a key determinant for its full impact on L. loa parasitological indicators. The non-adherence to ivermectin treatment has been demonstrated to be associated to perceived fear of severe adverse events (SAEs).
The replication and transcription of genes are coordinated to avoid potential conflicts. In B. subtilis, head-on transcription of rRNA genes is oriented co-directionally with replication, and it has been suggested that this co-orientation is advantageous to avoid mutagenesis of essential genes. Here we have used the genome of B. subtilis to examine the impact of head-on transcription on replication, and found that the extent of the impact varies depending on the location of the gene. We observed that head-on transcription of rRNA genes results in strong blockage of replication, and that this disrupts replication elongation. In contrast, the transcription of non-essential genes is only slightly affected by head-on transcription. We also observed that head-on transcription of rRNA genes is sufficient to induce the DNA damage response and result in cell death. We conclude that the genome-wide bias of co-orientation of replication and transcription is an important driving force in the evolution of genome organization.
Human schistosomiasis is a neglected tropical disease caused by the blood fluke Schistosoma mansoni. Here, we report that infection of schistosomula with vesicular stomatitis virus glycoprotein-pseudotyped human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) leads to attachment of virions, reverse transcription of the RNA genome of HIV-1, and integration of the provirus into the genome of the blood fluke. HIV-1 integrates into the chromosomes of schistosomes with bias for regions that are not transcribed. These findings demonstrate that lentiviruses can efficiently infect and transduce schistosomes, and provide a platform for functional genomics in these parasites.
Leptospirosis is a zoonotic disease of global significance that is primarily caused by the bacterial spirochete Leptospira spp. Infection with pathogenic Leptospira can result in severe morbidity and mortality, particularly among individuals with pre-existing renal disease. The major leptospiral protein LipL32 is a surface-exposed lipoprotein that is the most abundant protein within the cell and is a target of the host immune response. We have previously shown that post-translational modification of LipL32, specifically O-methylation of glutamic acid residues, enhances bacterial survival and virulence. In this study we extend these findings by identifying lysine modifications occurring within LipL32 isolated from rats shedding Leptospira in their urine. Through LC-MS/MS analysis we identified eight modified lysine residues, of which five were confirmed by manual de novo sequencing. Of interest, three of the modified residues were located within immunodominant epitopes previously identified through peptide mapping studies. In an ELISA assay, we observed a significant decrease in the reactivity of leptospirosis patient serum against a peptide containing a modified lysine residue from one of these epitopes compared to the unmodified epitope. Our data provide the first proteomic investigation of post-translational modifications occurring within LipL32 and provide insight into the potential functional consequences of such modifications. Additionally, this study provides a potential molecular mechanism for the establishment of chronic Leptospira infection in rats and acute Leptospira infection in humans.
The capacity of the host to accommodate multiple inflating memory responses to different epitopes from unrelated pathogens is not well understood. We have used two different models of inflation, MCMV and Ad-lacZ, to investigate the size of the memory compartment and its capacity to accommodate multiple inflating responses. We found that multiple inflating responses may develop at the same time and do not impact upon the size of the pre-existing inflating memory. However, acute MCMV infection depletes the inflating memory population in the blood and organs, with some recovery after boosting with Ad-lacZ. This suggests that the host is able to accommodate multiple inflating responses from unrelated pathogens. The results of this study indicate that the timing of pathogen acquisition may be important in shaping the existing memory compartment.
Sexual dimorphism is widespread in animal traits, including in insects. The mechanisms underlying the development of these traits are not well understood. Here we investigate the role of the sex-determination gene doublesex (dsx) in the development of sex-specific mandibles in the stag beetle Cyclommatus metallifer. We have constructed a transcriptome database for this species and examined the expression patterns of a full-length C. metallifer doublesex (Cmdsx) transcript during the prepupal period, when mandibular tissues proliferate to their final adult size. The Cmdsx transcript was composed of four isoforms with different sex-specific splice variants. Knockdown of the Cmdsx gene by RNA interference caused mandibles of females to grow significantly more than those of control females, and caused mandibles of males to grow significantly less than those of control males. The phenotype of knockdown males was changed to be more female-like in body color, mandible size, foreleg tibial spine number, and genital shape and genital size. We also examined the effect of Cmdsx knockdown on the sensitivity of mandibular tissues to juvenile hormone (JH), which has been implicated in mandible growth in this species. We found that the sensitivity of mandibular tissues to JH was sex-specific, and that knockdown of Cmdsx caused mandibles of females to become more sensitive to JH, where they otherwise would not have been. In contrast, in knockdown males, mandibles were less sensitive to JH, where they otherwise would have been. These results suggest that the developmental pathways of mandible growth are regulated by the sex-determination gene doublesex in a sex- and tissue-specific manner. We propose that a rich interplay between endocrine and sex-determination pathways coordinates the growth of exaggerated sexually-selected and sexually-dimorphic characters.
Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is characterised by insulin resistance and impaired glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS). We used a screening approach to identify genes that regulate mitochondrial function in human T2D islets. We screened for genes that are differentially expressed in human T2D islets from donors with impaired glucose tolerance and/or T2D. We then used a mouse model of Down syndrome (DS), which is characterised by 3 copies of chromosome 21, to identify genes that are overexpressed in DS islets. We used global islet genome expression data from human T2D islets and a mouse model of DS to identify genes that are differentially expressed in T2D islets. We identified a single candidate gene, RCAN1, which is overexpressed in T2D islets and when overexpressed in mouse islets causes mitochondrial dysfunction and reduced ATP levels. In human islets, RCAN1 expression correlates with increased methylation of three methylation sites in RCAN1. In RCAN1 overexpressing mice, RCAN1 methylation at these sites is reduced, and RCAN1 protein expression is increased. We show that RCAN1 overexpression in islets causes mitochondrial dysfunction and reduced ATP levels. The lack of ATP is linked to reduced GSIS. The in vivo GSIS is reduced in RCAN1 overexpressing mice and is associated with reduced methylation of three RCAN1 methylation sites. This study has identified a potential regulator of mitochondrial dysfunction and reduced GSIS in T2D β-cells.
The classification of viruses is challenging, and the lack of clear criteria for sub-species demarcation is a major problem. In this study, we used a novel mathematical method, Affinity Propagation (AP) clustering, to group rabies virus (RABV) sequences into clusters based on pairwise genetic distances. The results were compared with phylogenetic analyses. In total, 562 full genome sequences were analyzed, including 46 sequences newly obtained as part of this study. AP identified four clusters, which can be further sub-divided into five clusters, if further full genome sequences from the Indian subcontinent are available. These results were confirmed by phylogenetic analyses. The AP method was also used to delineate the lyssavirus species and revealed concordant results. The results of AP and phylogenetic analyses were compared to previous studies on RABV. The application of AP clustering, phylogenetic analyses, and the combination of both approaches revealed concordant results for RABV sub-species demarcation. The suggested approach offers advantages to phylogenetics in respect to transparency of grouping of RABV isolates and speed.
Oligodendrocytes and Schwann cells are the two main glial cell types in the central and peripheral nervous system, respectively, and are responsible for myelination. Both types of glial cells have a highly specialized regulatory network that is required for myelination. While the transcription factor Sox10 is required for myelination in both types of glial cells, the nature of the regulatory circuitry underlying myelination in oligodendrocytes is poorly understood. Here, we define a key regulatory circuit in oligodendrocytes and show that it involves Sox10 as a direct inducer of the transcription factor Myrf. Myrf is a transcription factor that is required for oligodendrocyte myelination and is also a key regulator of Schwann cell differentiation. It is therefore a prime candidate to be cooperating with Sox10 in the oligodendroglial regulatory network. Our findings confirm that Sox10 is required for myelination in oligodendrocytes and provide the first evidence that Sox10 is involved in myelination in the CNS. They also provide evidence that the regulatory circuitry underlying myelination in oligodendrocytes and Schwann cells is similar.
Dendritic trees are the most prominent neuronal morphology and their branching patterns have been related to synaptic connectivity. However, no branching statistic has yet been found that reliably associates specific morphologies with specific connectivity. We propose a new branching statistic, the regularity index R, for dendrites that allows to relate the morphology of a neuron with the specific connectivity that it implements. R is defined as the ratio between the observed average nearest neighbor (NN) distance to the one expected from a matching uniform distribution. We computed R for branch points and termination points of real dendrites and found that they were most clustered in distinct cell classes. Using morphological models we found that RInput values of branch points and termination points were good predictors of the input distribution in a given cell class, while RTP values were generally closer to 1. We also found that more regular input distributions with higher RInput values showed increased dendritic total length. Our results indicate that RInput is a useful measure for characterizing dendritic morphology.
Zinc (Zn) is essential for host control of bacterial infection. Although Zn is a crucial component of the host immune response, its role in the pathogenesis of pneumococcal disease has not been established. Here, we report that dietary Zn restriction compromises host resistance to pneumococcal infection. We show that Zn abundance changes in the host niches of S. pneumoniae infection and that Zn homeostatic pathways are directly impacted in the lungs. This is linked to Zn-dependent killing of bacteria by phagocytic cells, which is impaired in Zn-deficient mice. Our work highlights the importance of host Zn status in the control of pneumococcal infection and identifies a mechanism by which Zn contributes to host resistance.
Antisense transcription is a common feature of mammalian promoters. Promoter-proximal convergent transcription is a subset of divergent transcription, where antisense transcription initiates at the upstream transcription start site (uaTSS) and transcription initiates at the downstream antisense transcription start site (daTSS). daTSSs have been associated with promoter-proximal chromatin features and transcriptional regulation. Here, we investigate the connection between antisense transcription and gene expression in human breast epithelial cells (T47D/A1-2). We find that daTSSs coincide with the downstream edge of promoter-associated genomic features and nucleosome-depleted regions. daTSSs also coincide with the downstream edge of promoter-associated histone marks and with the binding of transcription factors. Chromatin remodelers also associate with daTSSs. These observations suggest that antisense transcription may be a mechanism for modulating the chromatin environment at promoters. We find that antisense transcription is not associated with lowly expressed genes and is not a repressive feature of genes. These results suggest that antisense transcription may play a role in signal-dependent gene expression changes.
Dengue is an important public health problem in Brazil. In this study, three NS1 antigen capture assays: Early ELISA (PanBio), Platelia NS1 (BioRad) and the NS1 Ag Strip (BioRad) were evaluated in tissues of Brazilian fatal dengue cases. The sensitivities of the NS1 capture assays were 87.0% (22/26), 60.8% (14/23) and 91.3% (21/23), respectively. The Early ELISA detected NS1 in 22.9% (17/74) of the samples evaluated and the Platelia NS1 in 45.9% (34/74). The highest sensitivity was obtained by the NS1 Ag Strip and the differences in the sensitivities were statistically significant (p<0.05). The NS1 Ag Strip was the most sensitive in liver (91.3%, 21/23), lung (71.4%, 10/14), kidney (100%, 4/4), brain (80%, 8/10), spleen (66.6%, 10/15) and thymus (100%, 3/3) when compared to the other two assays. Lymph node from one case was positive only by the Early ELISA. The overall sensitivity of this new approach in confirming the fatal cases was 87.0%. Only fatal case number 19, with only a liver tissue sample, was not confirmed by any of the NS1 tests used while 22 out of 23 cases evaluated had at least one positive tissue. In this regard, there were 17 cases (73.9%) with all tissues examined positive. In our study, the Early ELISA test (PanBio) was less efficient in detecting dengue infection in tissues from fatal cases (34.7%) when compared to the Platelia test (60.8%) and the NS1 Ag Strip (91.3%). Specificities were 100% for every NS1 antigen capture tests, based on the three negative tissues for dengue infection in all diagnostic methods available in the Laboratory. No cross-reactivity was observed with tissues from fatal cases of yellow fever.
HIV testing is an essential first step in the HIV care continuum. However, high-risk populations, including men who have sex with men (MSM), often remain untested. Previous research has shown that crowdsourcing can be an effective tool to develop innovative health campaigns. We developed a comprehensive crowdsourced intervention to increase HIV testing uptake among MSM in China. We conducted a stepped wedge cluster randomized controlled trial in eight Chinese cities to evaluate the effectiveness of the crowdsourced intervention compared to conventional programs routinely provided by local Centers for Disease Control (CDCs) and community-based organizations (CBOs). We recruited 1,313 MSM from the eight cities. We used a nationwide open contest call for images and concepts that encourage HIV testing, a regional strategy designathon, and local participatory contests soliciting HIV testing messages. We then conducted a closed cohort stepped wedge cluster RCT in eight Chinese cities to evaluate the effectiveness of the intervention compared to the control period. The intervention was implemented over 12 months. We followed standard guidelines for reporting stepped wedge cluster RCTs (S1 CONSORT Checklist) [21]. The steps for intervention development are shown in Fig 1 and further explained in S2 Text. We evaluated the primary outcome of the study, the proportion of participants who tested for HIV over the previous 3 months. We also measured the following secondary outcomes: facility-based HIV testing; HIV self-testing; syphilis testing; condomless sex; using WeChat, Weibo, QQ, or mobile phone applications to give/receive information about HIV testing; anticipated HIV stigma; HIV testing social norms; HIV testing self-efficacy; and community engagement in sexual health. We adapted validated scales to measure anticipated HIV stigma [22], HIV testing social norms [23], HIV testing self-efficacy [24], and increase in community engagement in sexual health during the follow-up period (as compared to baseline) [10]. We evaluated the effect of the intervention using intention-to-treat analysis utilizing generalized linear mixed models (GLMMs). We encountered non-convergence problems when a log-binomial GLMM was used to estimate relative risk. Thus, we employed a log Poisson GLMM model [26]. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to evaluate a per-protocol effect and a city/cluster-level effect of the intervention on HIV testing proportion in the past 3 months. The per-protocol analysis only included participants who reported viewing the intervention materials. For the city-level intervention effect, we used the HIV-testing proportion of each city across the four follow-ups as the outcome, and fit a normal linear mixed model that accounted for the random effect of sites to estimate the difference in HIV testing proportions. An intention-to-treat sensitivity analysis was conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of the intervention while adjusting for the province in the model. The estimated intervention effect sizes (risk ratio [RR] for binary outcomes, and mean difference for continuous outcomes) were each reported with a 95% confidence interval (CI) and p-value. We encountered non-convergence problems when a log-binomial GLMM was used to estimate relative risk. Thus, we employed a log Poisson GLMM model [26]. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to evaluate a per-protocol effect and a city/cluster-level effect of the intervention on HIV testing proportion in the past 3 months. The per-protocol analysis only included participants who reported viewing the intervention materials. For the city-level intervention effect, we used the HIV-testing proportion of each city across the four follow-ups as the outcome, and fit a normal linear mixed model that accounted for the random effect of sites to estimate the difference in HIV testing proportions. An intention-to-treat sensitivity analysis was conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of the intervention while adjusting for the province in the model. The estimated intervention effect sizes (risk ratio [RR] for binary outcomes, and mean difference for continuous outcomes) were each reported with a 95% confidence interval (CI) and p-value. We encountered non-convergence problems when a log-binomial GLMM was used to estimate relative risk. Thus, we employed a log Poisson GLMM model [26]. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to evaluate a per-protocol effect and a city/cluster-level effect of the intervention on
Cytomegaloviruses (CMVs) are human pathogens that evolved mechanisms to counteract the innate immune response. One of these strategies involves the targeting of CD48, a cell surface receptor expressed by immune cytotoxic cells, by viral proteins. Here, we report that OMCMV encodes a soluble viral protein, A43, that can act as a decoy molecule, binding to 2B4, the CD48 ligand, and preventing the formation of the cytotoxic NK cell immune synapse. A43 can also prevent the interaction between CD48 and 2B4, resulting in the impairment of NK cell cytotoxicity and cytokine production. Furthermore, we demonstrate that A43 is also capable to bind to human 2B4 and that this interaction is able to block NK cell cytotoxicity and cytokine production. Thus, our findings provide a novel example of how viruses can exploit host molecules to interfere with the immune response.
Myelin is a specialized membrane organelle synthesized by oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system (CNS) and by Schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). Myelin acts as an insulator by increasing electrical resistance across the cell membrane and by decreasing membrane capacitance, thereby ensuring the fast conduction of action potentials between nodes of Ranvier over long distances. Myelin is synthesized from the extracellular lipids that are taken up by oligodendrocytes and is synthesized by oligodendrocytes and by astrocytes. Here, we show that myelin membrane synthesis not only builds on oligodendrocyte endogenous lipid synthesis but also critically depends on extracellular lipids provided by astrocytes. To determine the individual role of oligodendrocyte and astrocyte lipid metabolism in CNS myelination, we used glial cell-restricted inactivation of sterol regulatory element binding protein (SREBP)-mediated lipid metabolism. CNP-SCAP mutants, in which SREBP-mediated lipid metabolism is compromised in oligodendrocytes, showed reduced myelin membrane formation during the first weeks of development. In contrast, GFAP-SCAP mutants, in which SREBP-mediated lipid metabolism is compromised in astrocytes, showed severe hypomyelination in adulthood. Moreover, we found that oligodendrocyte-specific ablation of SREBP-mediated lipid metabolism leads to a severe developmental delay in myelin synthesis, accompanied by a compensatory increase in uptake of fatty acids from the circulation and a largely improved phenotype in adult mice. This raises the question whether other cell types, in particular astrocytes, represent suppliers of lipids for lipogenesis-deficient oligodendrocytes. To determine the role of astrocyte-derived extracellular lipids in myelination, we analyzed GFAP-SCAP mice, in which SREBP-mediated lipid metabolism is compromised in astrocytes. Accordingly, GFAP-SCAP mutant mice had reduced myelin membrane formation during the first weeks of development. In contrast, oligodendrocyte-specific ablation of SREBP-mediated lipid metabolism led to severe hypomyelination in adulthood. Moreover, we found that oligodendrocyte-specific ablation of SREBP-mediated lipid metabolism leads to a severe developmental delay in myelin synthesis, accompanied by a compensatory increase in uptake of fatty acids from the circulation and a largely improved phenotype in adult mice. This raises the question whether other cell types, in particular astrocytes, represent suppliers of lipids for lipogenesis-deficient oligodendrocytes. To determine the role of astrocyte-derived extracellular lipids in myelination, we analyzed GFAP-SCAP mice, in which SREBP-mediated lipid metabolism is compromised in astrocytes. Accordingly, GFAP-SCAP mutant mice had reduced myelin membrane formation during the first weeks of development. In contrast, oligodendrocyte-specific ablation of SREBP-mediated lipid metabolism led to severe hypomyelination in adulthood. Moreover, we found that oligodendrocyte-specific ablation of SREBP-mediated lipid metabolism leads to a severe developmental delay in myelin synthesis, accompanied by a compensatory increase in uptake of fatty acids from the circulation and a largely improved phenotype in adult mice. This raises the question whether other cell types, in particular astrocytes, represent suppliers of lipids for lipogenesis-deficient oligodendrocytes.
The large majority of cellular mechanisms are executed and controlled by the coordinated action of thousands of proteins, whose biological function is strongly connected to their three-dimensional (3D) arrangement. As shown by Anfinsen almost 40 years ago, the native three-dimensional structure and function of any given protein is unambiguously encoded by its amino acid sequence. Despite many years of intensive work in the field, and many partial successes, the problem of predicting structural properties of a protein from sequence information alone is still to be considered as an open problem. Recent years have seen a staggering increase in the amount of available protein sequence data, which can be attributed to the developments in the sequencing technologies. Currently, sequences of more than 80 million proteins are known, which is a figure that continues growing by over 50% yearly. This, coupled with advances in sequence homology detection methods, allows for construction of accurate multiple sequence alignments (MSA), capable of capturing the evolutionary history of proteins of interest. As a result of the trade-off between the evolutionary drift and the constraint imposed by biological function, proteins comprising such a multiple sequence alignment are generally characterized by: (i) a considerable sequence variation, (ii) a striking similarity between their 3D structures. In particular, the evolutionary pressure to conserve structure suggests that residues in spatial proximity should exhibit patterns of correlated amino acid substitutions in these multiple sequence alignments. The approach of using co-evolutionary information encoded in the MSA of homologous proteins to predict structural features of its members was proposed long ago [6]–[11] (see also [12], [13] for recent reviews on the subject). The last five years have witnessed a renewed interest in the problem: after a first wave of works inspired by statistical physics based on Bayesian methods [14], [15], or on different mean-field approximations to a maximum-entropy model [16], [17], a burst of scientific activity produced new and increasingly accurate global inference methods [18]–[24]. Apart from inferring structural properties for single protein domains, co-evolutionary methods provide reliable predictions for: (i) inter-chain structural organization [17], (ii) specificity and partner identification in protein-protein interaction in bacterial signal transduction system [15], [25], (iii) essential residue-residue contacts to determine native 3D structures [26]–[28]. The basis of all these computational methods is the idea of global statistical inference. The global approach has the advantage that it is able to disentangle direct from indirect couplings between residues. By modeling the whole data set at once, and not only pairs of residues independently, it is, for example, possible to identify a case in which high correlation between two residues is the indirect consequence of both being directly correlated to a third variable. Methods that address this problem are collected under the umbrella term of Direct Coupling Analysis (DCA). Some methods used so far are (i) the message passing based DCA (mpDCA) [16] and the mean-field DCA (mfDCA) [17], (ii) sparse inverse covariance methods (PSICOV) [20], (iii) pseudo-likelihood based optimization [18]–[23]. The techniques proposed in (iii), and in particular the plmDCA algorithm [22], [24], seem to achieve the most accurate predictions so far, when validated against experimentally determined protein structures. Nonetheless, plmDCA shows systematic errors that can be traced back to certain intrinsic characteristics of MSAs, such as the existence of repeated gap stretches in specific parts of the alignment. This phenomenon reflects the tendency of homologous proteins to include large-scale modular gene rearrangements in their phylogenetic evolution, as well as point insertions/deletions. As an empirical way to describe such complex rearrangements, sequence alignment methods typically use a form of substitution matrix to assign scores to amino acid matches and a gap penalty for matching an amino acid in one sequence and a gap in the other. In this work we highlight that contact prediction can be improved in three different ways, or dimensions, all important for overall success and accuracy. The first dimension is Data; it matters which MSA one uses as input to a DCA scheme. Continuing recent work of one of us [30] we show that in a large test data set MSAs built on HHblits alignments give more useful
Hantaan virus (HTNV) is the most common cause of hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS) in China. We have identified five novel CD8+ T-cell epitopes on the nucleoprotein (NP) of HTNV and evaluated the function of these epitope-specific T-cell responses in HFRS patients. The epitopes were restricted by HLA-A2 and -B35 alleles, which are the major HLA alleles in Chinese Han population. The epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell responses were detected at the acute stage of the disease in patients with mild/moderate HFRS, whereas the epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell frequencies were declined at late stage. The epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell responses were inversely associated with the severity degree of HFRS. The epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell responses were also associated with the clinical parameters of HFRS, such as peak level of serum creatinine and nadir of platelet counts. The epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell responses were also associated with the different HLA alleles in the patients. The frequency of epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell response was low in the acute stage of HFRS. The epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell response was activated and proliferative at the acute stage of the disease. The epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell response was also associated with the capacity of proliferation. Our results provide the first evidence of the HTNV epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell response in HFRS patients and might be helpful to understand the relationship between the epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell response, the CD8+ T-cell functional characters, and disease control in acute zoonotic HTNV infections in humans.
Human African trypanosomiasis (HAT) is a neglected tropical disease with a major impact on human health in Western and Central Africa. In its late stage, HAT is generally considered to be fatal if left untreated and is responsible for a heavy burden in affected areas. We investigated the impact of the recent Ebola outbreak on HAT screening and caring activities in the three coastal Guinean focuses of Boffa, Dubreka and Forecariah. We performed a retrospective analysis of the data of all the people screened and/or treated for HAT in the three districts of Boffa, Dubreka and Forecariah within the frame of the Guinean HAT National Control Program (PNLTHA) routine activities. For that purpose, we used available data collected between February 2012 and October 2015 in two electronic databases: (i) the ‘HAT treatment database’ collecting prospectively sociodemographic, clinical, parasitological, therapeutic and follow-up information of the patients initiating HAT treatment in the study centers; (ii) the ‘HAT screening database’ recording active testing campaigns activities since 2012 and passive screening activities only since 2014. Active screening campaigns were abandoned during the Ebola outbreak. Passive screening activities were reduced by half during the Ebola period. Only 2 (4%) patients were diagnosed in stage 1 during the Ebola period as compared to 29 (19%) before Ebola. The proportion of patients diagnosed through passive screening with stage 2 disease has increased sharply from 57 to 97% during the Ebola period. Even with the well tolerated NECT regimen, the treatment of advanced infection remains hazardous. HAT diagnosis and treatment are provided freely in Guinea. Hence, increase of hospitalization length can represent a heavy economic burden for affected families as food is not supplied and the patients need guardians to look after them. The number of patients attending the 3 months and 6 months post-treatment follow-up visits decreased significantly during Ebola period. DALYs estimates using the available data have shown a significant impact of Ebola. Even if these estimates rely on many assumptions due to the lack of evidence, the impact of Ebola was already substantial with the conservative hypothesis of a similar 2% CFR for reported and under-reported HAT cases during Ebola. Our study highlights the impact of the Ebola outbreak on HAT screening and caring activities in the three coastal Guinean focuses of Boffa, Dubreka and Forecariah.
Schizophrenia is a common psychiatric disorder that is characterized by a sex-specific risk. The molecular basis of this sex difference is not clear. Here we have carried out a genome-wide association study using DNA pools of cases and controls constructed separately for men and women to allow the identification of sex-specific effects. We identified one SNP in the fourth intron of the reelin gene (RELN (600514)) that confers a sex-specific risk of schizophrenia. Although the significance of the association between rs7341475 and schizophrenia in the Ashkenazi Jewish sample would not withstand a Bonferroni correction for multiple testing, we were able to replicate the sex-specific association in other samples from different populations that were tested for this specific SNP. The female-specific association of rs7341475 with schizophrenia was replicated in the UK case-control group with an effect in the same direction (ORGG = 1.85; pgenotype = 1.8 × 10−3), and a significant sex effect (pinteraction = 3.2 × 10−3). All other populations showed an effect in the same direction, although individually the effects were not significant. Combining all replication samples yielded a genotype ORGG of 1.41 (95% CI = 1.13–1.76) with a corresponding pgenotype of 2.1 × 10−3 for women and ORGG of 0.97 (95% CI = 0.83–1.15, pgenotype = 0.76) for men. The odds ratio for women in the combined replication set was significantly higher than men (pinteraction = 4.2 × 10−3). The female-specific ORGG, from all samples, including the initial Ashkenazi Jewish sample is 1.58 (1.31–1.89) with a corresponding pgenotype of 8.8 × 10−7, pinteraction of 1.6 × 10−5, and a female-population attributable risk of 50%. The female-specific association of rs7341475 with schizophrenia may suggest a possible pathway where sex hormones modulate gene expression, which by altering cortical structure, increases susceptibility to psychosis.
The fungus Candida albicans is the most common cause of oral candidiasis and can also cause life-threatening systemic infections in immunocompromised individuals. We have identified 12 novel oral infection-associated genes in C. albicans, including the gene encoding the transcription factor DUR31. DUR31 was upregulated during oral infection and was required for oral epithelial damage, endothelial cell damage and virulence. We demonstrate that DUR31 is a sodium substrate transporter that mediates extracellular alkalinization, filamentous growth and the import of the antimicrobial peptide histatin 5. These data provide new insight into the pathogenesis of C. albicans infections and suggest that DUR31 may be a target for novel anti-C. albicans therapies.
The process of terminal differentiation of B cells is controlled by a complex network of transcription factors that integrate physiologic signals in response to antigens, extracellular cytokines, and direct cell-to-cell interactions. Here, we infer the regulatory network that controls the terminal differentiation of B cells from experimental data available in literature. The network is composed of 22 nodes representing functional molecules or molecular complexes, namely AID, Ag, Bach2, Bcl6, BCR, Blimp1, CD40, CD40L, ERK, IL-2, IL-2R, IL-4, IL-4R, IL-21, IL-21R, Irf4, NF-κB, Pax5, STAT3, STAT5, STAT6 and XBP1. We found necessary to incorporate to the network the interactions Pax5 → Bcl6, Irf4 ⊣ Pax5 and the self-regulatory interactions Bcl6 → Bcl6, and Pax5 → Pax5 so as to obtain attractors with biological significance. We constructed two dynamical systems, one discrete and one continuous, to analyze the dynamical properties of the regulatory network. The discrete version of the B cell regulatory network was studied by exhaustively testing the behavior of the network from all possible initial conditions. The system reaches exactly four fixed point attractors, shown in Table 1. Notably, there is a one-to-one relation of these four attractors with the expression patterns of the cell types shown in Fig 1. The continuous version of the model, however, has 7 fixed-point attractors, which are not found in the discrete model. We simulated all possible single loss- and gain-of-function mutants and evaluated the severity of each mutation by comparing the resulting attractors with those of the wild type model. Loss-of-function mutants of the six master regulators that constitute the core of the network can be grouped according to whether its effect results in the loss of one or more attractors with respect to the wild type model or if it results in the appearance of atypical attractors not found in the wild type model. Importantly, the continuous model also reaches the known biologically relevant transitions. Given that the continuous model has 7 fixed-point attractors, its complete fate map is larger than that for the discrete model. The dynamical behavior of the model is able to describe the differentiation process outlined in Fig 1, from the Naive precursor to any of the GC, Mem, or PC cell types by means of sequential pulses of extracellular signals known to direct terminal B cell differentiation. The system is initialized starting from the Naive attractor, and the system is perturbed at a time t ≈ 25 with a single high pulse of IL-2 or IL-4 for 2 or more time units. This perturbation is sufficient to move the dynamical system to the GC attractor which is in agreement with the observations that IL-2 and IL-4 promote B cell proliferation and germinal center formation, and are also necessary signals for the transition of Naive B cells to GC B cells. Differentiation of either Naive or GC cells to Mem cells is mediated by the activation of the CD40 receptor by its ligand CD40L, which leads to Irf4 induction and to the repression of Bcl6. Our model recovers these differentiation routes with a saturating activation of CD40L for ≈2 or more arbitrary time units, which leads to the activation of Irf4 node when the Pax5 node is active and Blimp1 is not present. Activation of Irf4 downregulates Bcl6 and directs the transition from the GC to the Mem attractor of the dynamical system. Similarly, starting from any of the Naive, GC, or Mem attractors, the system is able to move to the PC attractor by applying a saturating signal of either IL-21 or Ag. This is consistent with the experimental reports where BCR activation by Ag induce Blimp1 upregulation, as well as Pax5 and Bcl6 downregulation thus promoting plasma cell differentiation from either Naive, GC, or Mem cell types. This process is facilitated by the presence of IL-21 which is transduced by STAT3. For both the discrete and continuous models we obtained the same biological relevant transition paths that describe the wild type differentiation pattern outlined in Fig 1. However, given that the continuous model has 7 fixed-point attractors, its complete fate map is larger than that for the discrete model (S
