Early epigenetic alterations are important for understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying human colon cancer development. The study of early epigenetic events in intestinal adenoma may benefit the understanding of the early events of colon cancer development. Here we report a comprehensive catalogue of differentially methylated regions (DMRs) in mouse intestinal adenoma, which is characterized by a core epigenetic signature that is conserved between mouse and human colon cancer. We show that the DMR signature is de novo in adenoma cells rather than by expansion of a pre-existing pattern, and that the DMR signature is recurring between independent adenoma samples. The study of early epigenetic alterations in intestinal adenoma may facilitate the selection of more specific clinical epigenetic biomarkers.
The two major genetic groups of Trypanosoma cruzi (TcI and TcII) are associated with different geographical distribution and different disease outcomes. However, the mechanisms leading to the different outcomes are not known. We evaluated the effects of infection with either the TcI strain Col cl1.7 or the TcII strain Y on immunological characteristics of human monocytes and lymphocytes. Our data show that Col cl1.7 and Y strain lead to differential activation of monocytes and T cells. Monocytes infected with Col cl1.7 have higher expression of HLA-DR, TLR-2, CD80, CD86, IL-12/IL-23p40, TNF-alpha and IL-10. In contrast, monocytes infected with Y strain have a lower activation profile, with lower expression of HLA-DR, TLR-2, CD80, CD86 and IL-12/IL-23p40, but higher expression of TNF-alpha and IL-10. CD4+ and CD8+ T cells have a higher expression of CD69 and cytokines after infection with both strains. However, the expression of TNF-alpha, IL-10 and Granzyme A by CD8+ T cells was higher after infection with Y strain. These results show that TcI and TcII strains have a distinct immunological impact on human cells during early infection.
DNA polymerase ν (Poln) is the only polymerase that is specific for meiotic recombination. Here we report the results of genetic disruption of Poln in mice, and describe a specialized function of Poln in the testis. We report that Poln is not essential for viability, fertility, or tumor incidence in mice. We show that Poln is expressed uniquely in the testis, and that it is highly upregulated during testis development. We show that disruption of Poln results in a modest reduction in meiotic recombination frequencies at the A3 recombination hot spot, which is enriched for recombination. We also show that disruption of Poln does not influence the sensitivity of cells to DNA crosslinking agents.
Answer: The main cause of dengue fever and dengue hemorrhagic fever is the dengue virus. Question: Why is developing a dengue vaccine challenging? Answer: Developing a dengue vaccine is challenging due to the existence of four serotypes of dengue virus. Question: What is the purpose of developing a vaccine against dengue virus? Answer: The purpose of developing a vaccine against dengue virus is to protect people against severe and life-threatening forms of dengue disease. Question: What is the name of the vaccine developed by Sanofi Pasteur? Answer: The name of the vaccine is CYD tetravalent dengue vaccine.
Robustness is a central concept in biology, but the design principles of signaling cascades that promote robustness are not well understood. Here, we investigate the design principles of signaling cascades that allow for robust cellular responses. We find that the cell-to-cell variability of signaling cascades can be actively modulated by parameter tuning, gene expression noise regulation or additional signaling mechanisms such as feedforward and feedback loops. We show that cell-to-cell variability can be strongly reduced by negative feedback regulation, which simultaneously reduces the variability of the maximal pathway activation and the signaling threshold. We also find that correlated fluctuations in multiple signaling protein concentrations are required to effectively reduce variability in gradual signaling cascades. We propose that the design principles of signaling cascades that promote robustness involve negative feedback regulation to reduce variability, and the coordinated modulation of multiple signaling protein concentrations to achieve robust cellular responses.
CD8+ T cells are required for the development of protective immunity against visceral leishmaniasis (VL). However, their role in the immune response to Leishmania donovani parasites is still not well understood. In this study, we investigated the development, function, and fate of CD8+ T cell responses in a transgenic model of Leishmania-specific CD8+ T cell responses. Ovalbumin-transgenic L. donovani parasites were used to characterize the expansion of CD8+ T cells in response to L. donovani parasites. Adoptively transferred OT-I CD8+ T cells were found to be limited in their expansion and displayed a biphasic activation pattern. Following clonal contraction, cells displayed an effector phenotype and produced high levels of cytokines, but their capacity to produce IFNγ was lost over time. In vivo B7-H1 blockade significantly improved the survival of dysfunctional CD8+ T cells. In vivo B7-H1 blockade also reduced the parasite burden in the spleen, suggesting that restoration of dysfunctional CD8+ T cell responses induced by chronic L. donovani infections results in disease control and host protection.
The mammalian prion protein (PrP) exhibits a dual behavior upon protonation of its buried imidazole ring around pH 4.5. We have used molecular dynamics simulations to investigate the structural effects of this protonation on the mammalian PrP. Our findings show that the protonation of H187 leads to an electrostatic repulsion between the imidazole ring of H187 and R136, which induces a reorganization of the structure of H2(Cter) and S1,S2. We propose that this dual behavior of PrP upon protonation of H187 may be related to the observed variability of prion strains.
Epilation is a common traditional practice for preventing TT-related vision loss. The purpose of the randomized controlled trial mentioned in the text is to compare the effectiveness of epilation and surgery for the management of minor trachomatous trichiasis (TT). 1300 individuals with minor TT were included in the study. 1151 participants were randomized to the surgery arm and 1151 to the epilation arm. The surgery arm had a higher recurrence rate compared to the epilation arm. The epilation-only group had a high rate of successful treatment. The study's findings suggest that good quality epilation with regular follow-up can be a reasonable second-line alternative to surgery for minor trachomatous trichiasis.
The macrophage mannose receptor (MR) is a prototypic marker of alternatively activated macrophages and is shown to be involved in dengue virus (DV) infection. Here, we demonstrate that the MR is a receptor for DV. DV binding to the MR is mediated by the lectin activity of the MR's carbohydrate recognition domain (CRD). The presence of MR on transfected cells is sufficient to confer DV binding. DV infection of monocytes/macrophages (MDMØ) is enhanced in the presence of type 2 cytokines IL-4/IL-13, which upregulate MR expression on MDMØ. The human MR is shown to bind to DV antigen produced in mosquito cells and to recombinant mammalian cell–produced DV envelope glycoprotein. A recombinant MR fusion protein (CRD4–7-Fc) recognizes DV envelope protein in ELISA and blot overlays, and binding is inhibited by mannose, fucose and EDTA. The presence of MR on transfected cells is sufficient to confer DV binding. Antibodies specific for the MR significantly block DV infection of MDMØ. These findings demonstrate the role of the MR in DV infection and suggest that it may play a role in DV pathogenesis.
Homeostatic plasticity is an important mechanism for maintaining neural and behavioral dynamics. However, it is not clear how homeostatic plasticity is able to maintain such dynamics. Here, we explore the role of homeostatic plasticity in maintaining neural and behavioral dynamics in the context of spontaneous neural dynamics. We show that homeostatic mechanisms are needed to maintain neural and behavioral dynamics in a simple virtual environment. We propose that homeostatic mechanisms can play a novel functional role in maintaining neural and behavioral dynamics in the brain, particularly in the context of spontaneous neural dynamics.
Long-distance chromosomal interactions play a crucial role in gene regulation in higher eukaryotes. However, their role in yeast gene regulation is unclear. Here, we designed a medium-throughput Hi-C assay to screen for functional long-distance interactions in single yeast cells. We identified three types of long-distance interactions and demonstrated that they are caused by Sir2-mediated silencing, transcriptional interference, and 3D clustering. We also found evidence that some long-distance interactions can lead to overexpression of native genes. Our findings suggest that long-distance chromosomal interactions can regulate gene expression in yeast.
Recombination is essential for proper chromosome segregation during meiosis. In yeast, non-random crossover placement is required for proper chromosome segregation during meiosis. Here, we investigate the role of recombination in meiosis and the relationship between recombination and chromosome axis morphogenesis. We show that the protein Hop1/Red1 is a crossover interference factor. Pch2, a protein required for crossover placement and chromosome axis morphogenesis, is required for crossover interference. In pch2Δ, crossover interference is reduced and chromosome axis length is increased. We propose that Pch2 controls chromosome axis morphogenesis by controlling the number and distribution of Hop1-enriched chromosome domains.
RIN4 is a negative regulator of plant innate immunity. RIN4 is a transmembrane protein that functions in the regulation of stomatal apertures during plant infection. We have identified the two novel proteins AHA1 and AHA2, which interact with RIN4. We have also identified RIN4 associated proteins and have characterized their function. We show that RIN4 overexpression increases PM H+-ATPase activity, while the rin4 knockout exhibits decreased PM H+-ATPase activity. RIN4 can interact with the C-terminal regulatory domain of AHA1 and AHA2, which are negatively regulated by their C termini. We demonstrate that RIN4 can regulate PM H+-ATPase activity in planta and in vitro. Importantly, we show that the rin4 knockout cannot re-open its stomata in response to virulent Pst, indicating that RIN4 is required for stomatal closure during pathogen infection.
The implementation of larviciding interventions in European towns is evaluated. The effect of routine larviciding against dengue and chikungunya is assessed by coupling a mathematical model of mosquito population dynamics and a cost-utility analysis. The optimal time for larviciding is during July. One application of larviciding is required to reduce the transmission of chikungunya. Larviciding can significantly reduce the transmission of dengue. The estimated reduction in the number of cases of dengue transmission in larger municipalities is 18–51%. Involving private citizens in routine larviciding activities may be cost-effective in small towns.
The main objective of the study presented in the text is to identify the minimal set of acoustic cues that allow bats to avoid obstacles in their echolocation environment. The proposed minimal set of cues for obstacle avoidance in echolocating bats is the Interaural Intensity Difference (IID) and travel time of the first millisecond of the echo train. The results from simulations and experiments show that the Interaural Intensity Difference and travel time of the first millisecond of the echo train are sufficient to support obstacle avoidance.
The evolution of metabolic networks has been a long-standing question in biochemistry. Here we show that a simple artificial chemistry can exhibit a set of recurring topological properties that are reminiscent of those found in real metabolic pathways. We find that the optimal pathways in this chemistry can be searched for using a combination of analytical and numerical methods. We then use this approach to search for similar properties in real metabolic pathways, and find that they are statistically consistent with the properties of the artificial chemistry. These results provide a new perspective on the evolution of biochemical complexity.
Answer: The purpose of the presented method is to reveal time-varying migration rates and population sizes in a population. Question: How is genetic similarity typically measured in population genetics? Answer: Genetic similarity is typically measured by counting the number of long segments of haplotype sharing, also known as identity-by-descent tracts.
Insulin resistance impairs local cellular crosstalk between cell types and delays epithelial repair in the liver during chronic injury. We investigated the role of insulin receptor substrate 2 (Irs2) in mediating this effect using a mouse model of chronic liver damage. Irs2 deletion impaired local paracrine repair, leading to reduced expression of Fgf7 in fibrotic stroma and impaired Fgfr2-IIIb expression in bipotent adult liver progenitor cells (LPCs). Irs2 deletion also delayed hepatocyte differentiation and re-epithelialization in the liver, as judged by the failure to sustain expression of hepatocyte-specific genes and the inability to expand numbers of small hepatocytes. We also found that Irs2 was required for paracrine Fgf7/Fgfr2-IIIb signaling in the fibrotic stroma and for the differentiation of bipotent adult liver progenitor cells. Coculture studies demonstrated that Irs2 deficiency in fibrotic stroma impaired heterotypic paracrine crosstalk between stromal fibroblasts and LPCs, leading to failure to induce Fgfr2-IIIb and epithelialization. Our findings demonstrate that Irs2 plays a critical role in promoting hepatocyte differentiation and epithelialization during chronic liver injury.
The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is the primary site for secretory protein and lipid biosynthesis, both of which are essential for proper cellular function. In agreement, disruption of ER homeostasis is associated with pathologies such as neurodegenerative disorders. The Unfolded Protein Response (UPR) is a cellular program that is activated when ER homeostasis is perturbed. In mammals, the UPR is composed of three pathways that are initiated by distinct ER stress sensors: inositol-requiring enzyme 1 (IRE1), protein kinase RNA (PKR)-like ER kinase (PERK), and activating transcription factor-6 (ATF6). IRE1 is the most ancient of the UPR sensors, being conserved from yeast to humans, and bears both kinase and ribonuclease activities. Here, we demonstrate that IRE1 serves a conserved role in dendrite arborization under normal physiological conditions. We show that IRE1 is required for the proper patterning of the dendrites of the polymodal sensory PVD neurons in the hippocampus of rats, and that mutations in IRE1 impair PVD dendrite morphogenesis. We also show that mutations in IRE1 impair the trafficking of the DMA-1 receptor to the plasma membrane, and that this trafficking block can be bypassed by reducing insulin/IGF signaling. Altogether, our findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms of neuronal branching, and highlight the importance of discovering and investigating new approaches that can bypass excessive ER stress.
The main focus of this study is to identify the regulatory mechanisms that control the balance between reduced and oxidized electron carriers in bacteria. We performed a genome-wide analysis of the ArcA regulon in Escherichia coli to identify the regulatory mechanisms that control the balance between reduced and oxidized electron carriers in bacteria. The ArcAB two component system, comprised of the membrane bound sensor kinase, ArcB, and the response regulator, ArcA, coordinates changes in gene expression in response to changes in the respiratory and fermentative state of the cell. We identified 176 ArcA binding regions (135 of which were previously described) and found that the binding site architecture varied in both number and spacing of the direct repeat elements. ArcA directly regulates the expression of nearly 100 operons, including genes encoding enzymes for carbon oxidation pathways, and is predominantly a repressor. In addition, we identified 53 operons that are associated with binding sites that are not conserved in the ArcA binding sites identified to date. We propose that the variation in binding site architecture provides a means for E. coli to maintain the NADH/NAD+ ratio during anaerobic glucose fermentation.
The retinoblastoma tumor suppressor gene (Rb) is frequently mutated in human malignancies. Rb regulates cell cycle progression and promotes quiescence. The RNA splicing machinery is responsible for removing introns and joining exons to form mature mRNAs. We identified a zebrafish mutant, hp689, that exhibits microcephaly and pituitary expansion. We show that hp689 harbors a nonsense mutation in usp39, which encodes a conserved protein termed Sad1p in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and a 65 kDa (65K) SR-related protein in humans. Usyp39 is predominantly expressed in the brain and represents a novel neuronal splicing factor. We show that hp689 mutants exhibit defective rb1 pre-mRNA splicing and decreased rb1 expression. In addition, usp39 mutations lead to increased e2f4, rbl2 (p130), and cdkn1a (p21) expression. Knockdown of e2f4 partially rescued pomc lineage expansion in usp39 mutants. Our findings indicate that usp39 plays an important role in pituitary development by regulating rb1 and e2f4. Loss of usp39 leads to pituitary cell lineage expansion through rb1 downregulation due to a splicing defect. In addition, e2f4 overexpression contributes to increased pituitary cell mass, likely as a result of increased terminal differentiation or proliferation. Our studies reveal a novel role of usp39-mediated mRNA splicing of rb1 in pituitary cell growth control, which is critical for maintaining embryonic pituitary homeostasis.
Congenital infection with human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a common cause of neurological disease in infants and children. The pathogenesis of HCMV infection of the developing human CNS is not well understood. To investigate the role of inflammation in the development of CNS disease following HCMV infection of the developing CNS, we utilized a murine model of intraperitoneal infection with MCMV. In this model, we found that inflammation was a major component of the disease phenotype and that treatment of infected animals with glucocorticoids decreased inflammation in the CNS while minimally impacting virus replication and helped to normalize cerebellar development. In addition, treatment with glucocorticoids decreased the expression of inflammatory cytokines in the CNS. These findings suggest that inflammation plays a critical role in the development of CNS disease following HCMV infection of the developing CNS.
Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) are the most common cause of diarrheal illness in developing countries where these organisms cause hundreds of millions of infections and an estimated 300,000–500,000 deaths in young children each year. The pathogenesis of ETEC is complex, involving both plasmid-encoded colonization factors (CFs) and chromosomally-encoded virulence factors. Recently, the passenger domains of autotransporter proteins have been identified as a novel class of ETEC antigens. In this study, we examined 25 E. coli strains for passenger domains. Flow cytometry analysis of ETEC strains revealed the presence of autotransporter passenger domains on the surface of ETEC strains. Recombinant passenger domains were recognized by antibodies in convalescent sera from patients with ETEC diarrhea. Vaccinating mice with recombinant passenger domains afforded protection against intestinal colonization with ETEC. The study's findings suggest that passenger domains of autotransporter proteins may be useful targets for vaccine development.
Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever (CCHF) is a viral disease that is endemic in many parts of the world. We report on the clinical, epidemiological, and virological features of 88 cases of CCHF diagnosed in Oman between 1995 and 2017. The main cause of CCHF is the CCHF virus. CCHF is well-established in Oman. A retrospective descriptive review and analysis of CCHF cases was conducted over the period 1995 through 2017. Cases were detected by passive surveillance, starting with a few sporadic reports in 1995 and 1996, followed by no cases until 2011. Since then there has been a sustained increase in yearly reports, of which 19/80 (23.8%) have clustered around the Eid Al Adha festival, occurring in summer months in the years 2013 to 2017, with a possible smaller peak in the spring months. Ninety percent of all patients were male with a median age of 33 years. Both Omanis and citizens of other nationalities were affected, the predominant risk factors being exposure to animals and meat products, especially involvement in butchering or slaughtering. Diagnosis was confirmed by real time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in 82 (93.2%) cases and by serology alone in 4 (4.5%). Stored viral RNA from 12 patients presenting in 2013 and 2014 was sequenced for the entire S segment ORF of each of the 12 samples, all grouped in the Asia 1 (IV) clade. The cumulative mortality was 36.4%, and no cases of healthcare related or intrafamilial spread of infection were reported. This is the largest series of cases of CCHF reported from a GCC country, and provides the first data about locally prevalent strains of CCHFV in almost 20 years.
Dosage balance is a common design principle in biological systems. However, the significance of dosage balance in maintaining robustness in biological systems is not well understood. To understand the significance of dosage balance, we experimentally studied the quantitative genetic interactions between genes in the budding yeast cell cycle using combinatorial "genetic tug-of-war" experiments. We found that the cell cycle is highly fragile upon overexpression of certain genes, and this fragility is caused by dosage imbalance between enzymes and their inhibitors. Moreover, we found that dosage imbalance between enzymes and their inhibitors is masked by additional regulations. Our study demonstrates that dosage imbalance is a common cause of fragility in biological systems, and the masking effect of additional regulations can be used to improve integrative mathematical models.
Human herpesviruses, including Kaposi’s sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV), can cause Kaposi’s sarcoma and primary effusion lymphoma. The lytic cycle of KSHV is critical for its oncogenic potential. In this study, we found that KSHV encoded replication activator (RTA) interacts with STAT6 and induces its degradation via the proteasome and lysosomal pathway for the reactivation of the lytic cycle. The degradation of STAT6 is also dependent on its phosphorylation on Y641. The knockdown of STAT6 not only blocks KSHV lytic replication, but also enhances the expression of RTA and virion production. In addition, the knockdown of STAT6 increases the expression of TRIML2, a p53-associated tumor suppressor, which is also ubiquitylated by RTA. These results suggest that degradation of STAT6 is critical for lytic activation of KSHV and other human herpesviruses.
The objective of this study was to determine the magnitude of seroprevalence and seroconversion among the surveyed population and establish the individual/household level risk factors for the presence of DENV antibodies. The study was conducted in the city of Dhaka, Bangladesh. A total of 725 participants were included in the study. 1,125 blood samples were collected during the study. 80% of all participants during the pre-monsoon season were seropositive for DENV-specific IgG antibodies, and 57.7% of the 600 paired serum samples collected during the post-monsoon period were seroconverted (i.e., seropositive for either IgG or IgM antibodies). Age, indoor potted plants, types of mosquito control measures, and attendance in public gatherings were significantly associated with seroprevalence. The extent of seroconversion was associated with attendance in public gatherings and types of mosquito control measures used.
Sporulation is an ancient bacterial cell differentiation process allowing the conversion of a vegetative cell into a mature spore through a series of morphological steps. In Clostridium difficile, the main cause of nosocomial diarrhea, spores are formed in the gut of infected patients. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying sporulation in C. difficile are largely unknown. In Bacillus subtilis, the sporulation σ factor σK is the main regulator of sporulation. However, the role of σK in C. difficile sporulation is not clear, and it is not known whether the strict anaerobe requires similar mechanisms for sporulation. Here, we show that σK is required for the formation of spores in C. difficile. Moreover, the strict anaerobe requires the expression of a skinCd element for spore morphogenesis. The skinCd element is interrupted by a skinBs element, which is excised during sporulation in a SpoIIID-dependent manner. Moreover, excision of skinCd requires the expression of a gene under the control of σE and SpoIIID, CD1234. CD1234 is a recombination directionality factor that delays and restricts skinCd excision to the terminal mother cell. Together, these results provide a molecular mechanism for the control of sporulation in C. difficile and suggest that the strict anaerobe requires similar mechanisms for sporulation as the aerobic bacteria.
The human microbiome is increasingly recognized as a potential diagnostic tool. However, the generalization of the disease-predictive models across cohorts is still unclear. We developed a software framework for metagenomics-based prediction tasks based on machine learning classifiers (i.e., support vector machines (SVMs), random forests (RFs), Lasso, and Elastic Net (ENet)) and used it to assess the predictive power of metagenomic data from eight large-scale studies targeting six different diseases. The framework is fully automatic, including model and feature selection, permitting a systematic and non-overfitted analysis of large metagenomic datasets. Two main kinds of analysis were implemented, i.e., cross-validation (to evaluate the prediction strength of metagenomic data) and cross-study (to evaluate the generalization of the model between different studies). The developed tool incorporates four classification approaches and four feature selection strategies. The most relevant features are detected for biomarker discovery tasks. Finally, a set of tools is provided to evaluate classification performances in different ways. The developed tool is publicly available at http://segatalab.cibio.unitn.it/tools/metaml.
The HLA-B*5701 allele is associated with a lower rate of viral evolution and slower progression to AIDS. Herein, we investigated the absolute rates of nonsynonymous and synonymous substitutions in the HIV-1 genealogies of six HLA-B*5701 subjects followed longitudinally from early infection up to seven years. HIV-1 evolutionary rate was significantly lower in low-risk progressors (LRPs) than in high-risk progressors (HRPs) for all, internal, external, and backbone paths of the viral genealogies. The difference in mean synonymous substitution rates between HRPs and LRPs was highly significant (p<0.05) in all analyses. HIV-1 dN rates along internal branches were significantly higher in HRPs than in LRPs (Mann-Whitney U-test, p = 0.024). A trend toward higher dN rates in HRPs compared to LRPs was also observed for all branches (p = 0.024). HIV-1 dS rates were significantly higher in HRPs than in LRPs for all branches (p = 0.024) and for all branches along backbone paths (p = 0.024). The inverse correlation between baseline CD4+ T cell counts and mean dS rates (r2 = 0.9, p = 0.002) suggests that subjects with higher CD4+ T cell counts at baseline (10–11 weeks post infection) will keep HIV-1 replication under better control during the subsequent years. The data provide a novel framework for understanding the interplay between HIV-1 evolutionary rate variation and risk of progression to AIDS.
The main objective of this study was to investigate the mechanism of action of trypanocidal compounds in T. brucei. The compounds were choline analogs, and the screening approach was based on an RNAi library in T. brucei bloodstream forms. The results showed that depletion of TbMCP14 resulted in increased resistance of parasites towards the compounds. Over-expression of TbMCP14 in procyclic forms increased parasite susceptibility more than 13-fold. The results suggest that TbMCP14 is involved in energy production in T. brucei.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are considered the most important drug targets, and orphan GPCRs are considered a source of drug targets. The bombesin receptor subtype-3 (BRS3) was considered as an orphan GPCR, but it was found to be ligand-independent in nonplacental vertebrates. Here, we show that BRS3 is still ligand-dependent in nonplacental vertebrates, and that placental mammalian BRS3 underwent positive selection to lose the connection with its original ligands, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMB) and gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP). The structural changes underlying the different functions of placental mammalian BRS3 were analyzed, and the results showed that the N-terminal domain of placental mammalian BRS3 was responsible for its constitutive activity. Our findings suggest that the N-terminal domain is a key structural component for the conversion of BRS3 to constitutive activity.
Sleep is a fundamental biological process and a crucial component of human and animal health. While human sleep studies are well-established, automated sleep scoring in animals is still in its infancy. The main challenge is the laborious task of visual inspection of raw EEG recordings. In this paper, we present a novel deep learning architecture—SPINDLE—to address this challenge. SPINDLE uses a convolutional neural network to learn robust features which generalize across different experimental settings and labs. The model is trained on two wildtype mice and evaluated on 12 mice and 8 rats from four animal cohorts of three independent labs. The overall accuracy of SPINDLE was 98% and it was able to detect sleep-related alterations in brain activity. SPINDLE is available online as a web service (https://sleeplearning.ethz.ch).
Toxoplasma gondii is an important intracellular parasite causing disease in humans and animals. The parasite has evolved mechanisms to exploit host cell metabolic pathways. We report that the parasite relies on host cell isoprenoid synthesis for its metabolic interactions and that inhibition of host isoprenoid synthesis using statins increases the effectiveness of parasite inhibition. We propose a double-hit strategy combining inhibitors of host and parasite isoprenoid synthesis.
The main cause of the Sigatoka disease complex on bananas is the fungus Pseudocercospora fijiensis. The three species that constitute the disease complex (P. fijiensis, P. eumusae, and P. musae) are the most aggressive in terms of virulence. The evolution of virulence in P. eumusae and P. fijiensis is linked to their host specificity and metabolism. We used comparative genomics to identify genomic modifications associated with shifts in the species virulence spectra after speciation. A total of 234 gene families were found to be exclusively present in the three Sigatoka species, while 234 gene families were found to be lineage-specific. In addition, species-specific gene families were found to be enriched in genes encoding proteins involved in metabolism. Hierarchical clustering of the species based on the distribution profiles of their entire proteomes or arsenal of plant cell wall degrading enzymes (PCWDEs) resulted in P. eumusae grouping with P. fijiensis rather than P. musae, as expected based on the phylogenetic placement of the three species. Such coherent changes between P. eumusae and P. fijiensis in the size of gene families related to nutrient acquisition could reflect evolutionary changes that underlie a more effective exploitation of the banana host. Thus, in addition to parallel adaptations for nutrient utilization, P. eumusae and P. fijiensis seem to have evolved more similar mechanisms for nutrient acquisition.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a neglected tropical disease caused by Leishmania infantum. The pathogenesis of VL involves complex multi-factorial mechanisms, including the host immune response. This study aimed to understand the immune response during distinct states of infection with L. infantum. Whole peripheral blood was collected from patients with VL, patients under remission of disease, asymptomatically infected individuals and healthy controls. Gene expression profiles were evaluated by microarray hybridization and compared to those from uninfected controls and asymptomatic individuals. We found that VL patients exhibited a decrease in transcriptional activity. In contrast, patients under remission of disease and asymptomatically infected individuals exhibited increased transcriptional activity. The transcriptional profiles of VL patients were associated with a down-regulation of pathways related to the innate immune response. In contrast, patients under remission of disease and asymptomatically infected individuals exhibited an up-regulation of pathways related to the adaptive immune response. In addition, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) identified modules related to type I interferon signaling, which were associated with distinct clinical-epidemiologic groups. Our results indicate that distinct states of infection with L. infantum are associated with altered patterns of gene expression in the peripheral blood.
The paradox of cooperation is that natural selection should favor exploitative individuals that avoid paying their fair share of any costs, yet cooperation can also evolve. The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum provides a compelling model for studying the genetic basis of cooperation. However, the underlying mechanism of cooperation remains unclear. Here we show that the production and response to social signals can generate the complex partner-specific social success seen in D. discoideum. We find that the regulation of social signals is sufficient to generate the observed patterns of social behavior. Our findings suggest that seemingly complex social behavior can have a relatively simple underlying developmental mechanism.
Membrane proteins are synthesized in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). We identified a novel RNA motif that enhances the localization and stability of membrane-targeting mRNAs to the ER. The identified motif, termed SECRetE, is enriched in secretome proteins in all organisms examined, from prokaryotes to eukaryotes. SECRetE is present in both the coding and untranslated regions of the mRNA and is not dependent on the presence of encoded TMDs. SECRetE enhances the secretion of secretome proteins in yeast cells and is conserved in human and bacterial genomes. We propose that SECRetE is important, not only to understand how mRNAs may reach the ER in eukaryotes, but may have practical applications in the field of biotechnology.
The yellow fever mosquito Aedes aegypti is a primary vector of dengue, Zika, and chikungunya viruses, posing a significant public health risk. The study focuses on the origin of the Aedes aegypti mosquito population in California.
Rhodococcus opacus PD630 and R. jostii RHA1 are soil-derived bacteria that produce high levels of triacylglycerols (TAGs) and wax esters (WEs). These lipids are stored as droplets and are catabolized to provide energy and carbon for biosynthesis. Here we report the draft genome sequence of Rhodococcus opacus PD630 and the first comprehensive genetic analysis of the TAG cycle in Rhodococcus. We used whole-genome sequence to identify 261 genes implicated in the TAG cycle and a metabolic reconstruction that contains 44 metabolic pathways and 143 transport reactions. The reconstructed metabolic pathways are supported by a multi-genic screen for growth on 190 organic compounds. The results of this screen indicate that Rhodococcus species can catabolize a wide range of compounds including carboxylic acids, nitrogen containing compounds, carbohydrates, and alcohols. We also identified genes that encode for the synthesis of odd-carbon fatty acids, methyl-branched lipids, and sialic acid. These results provide a foundation for engineering Rhodococcus species for the production of biofuels and other high value compounds.
The study examines the use of oligonucleotides in prokaryotic genomes and explores how oligonucleotide frequencies vary between different prokaryotes.
Targeted gene mutations and spontaneous indels are important for understanding the phenotype of mutations in mice. The two types of gene targeting strategies used in mice are gene trap and homologous recombination. Here we evaluate the local effects of gene targeting in C57BL/6N adult mice by using RNA-seq to characterize the expression of the targeted gene, and genes flanking the targeted gene, in tissues from 44 unique mouse lines. We present here the changes in gene expression by RNA-seq for genes within +/- 500 kb of the center of the targeted gene. In S1 Table we present the data for this analysis including coordinates of all genes relative to the target gene for each sequenced mutant library, the normalized read counts from library sequencing, the Log2 difference between homozygous (HOM) and wild-type (WT) gene expression, and the significance of the differences as determined by the DESeq2 statistical analysis (both the adjusted and unadjusted p value). Overall results are presented in Fig 1 for the gene trap (TRAP) mutants (15 targets and 64 sequenced mutant libraries), and for the deletion (DEL) mutants (29 targets and 94 sequenced libraries). Both TRAP and DEL targets had one or more down-regulated genes within 500kb of ~40–50% of the targeted genes. Whereas, 59% of the DEL targets, but only 7% of TRAP targets, had an up-regulated gene within 500kb. When the frequency of up- or down-regulated genes was expressed per library, similar differences were observed with more DEL libraries having both down- and up-regulated genes within 500kb compared with TRAP libraries (Fig 1). There was a clear spatial organization of the up- and down-regulated genes flanking the DEL targets (Fig 2). Down-regulated genes flanking DEL targets were approximately equally distributed 5’ and 3’ of the target and the median distance from the target was 34kb. For up-regulated genes flanking DEL targets, there was a clear preponderance of up-regulated genes 3’ to the target (77.4%) vs. 5’ to the target (22.6%). The median distance of up-regulated genes 3’ to the target was 67kb, while the median distance of the up-regulated genes 5’ of the target was 321kb. For the TRAP targets, the down-regulated genes flanking TRAP alleles were approximately equally distributed 5’ and 3’ with the 5’ median distance of 224 kb, and the 3’ median distance from the target 8kb (Fig 2). There was only 1 up-regulated gene for one of the TRAP targets and it was located ~350kb 5’ to the target. There was no spatial organization of the genes with expression unaffected by the targeting event with approximately 5% of the genes (range 3.2–6.8%) found in each 50kb interval flanking the targets (derived from S1 Table). We completed a genome wide assessment of the frequency of finding up-or down-regulated genes within 500kb of all genes down-regulated in the HOM mutant libraries. For this analysis all libraries were evaluated and a DESeq2 statistical significance of p < 0.05 was used as the criteria for identifying down-regulated genes. The overall genome-wide frequency for finding up-regulated and down-regulated genes within 500kb of genes down-regulated in the HOM libraries was 1.09% and 2.22%, respectively. This is much lower than the frequency of up- or down-regulated genes flanking the targeted genes. Using a chi-square statistic, we compared the actual frequency of up- and down-regulated genes flanking each of the mutant classes, with the genome-wide frequency (see Table 1). For DEL mutants, both up- and down-regulated genes were found flanking the targeted genes at a much higher frequency than the genome-wide frequency (p < 10−6). For TRAP mutants, the frequency of disrupting intragenic regulatory elements in the 15
Dmrt1 is a master regulator of gonad development in vertebrates. Here, we show that the 3′ UTR of medaka dmrt1bY contains a conserved 11-nucleotide cis-regulatory motif, the D3U-box, which confers mRNA stability in the developing embryonic gonad. In medaka, this motif is targeted by two evolutionary conserved RNA binding proteins, Ol-cug-bp and Ol-bsf. Ol-bsf is expressed in the germ cells of the developing gonad and in the adult ovary, whereas Ol-cug-bp is expressed in somatic cells. We show that Ol-bsf and Ol-cug-bp bind to the D3U-box motif in vitro and in vivo, and that they are involved in differential regulation of dmrt1bY transcripts in the soma and germ cells of medaka. Our results suggest that the D3U-box is a target for 2 evolutionary conserved RNA binding proteins involved in either mRNA degradation or stabilization.
Eggs of mosquitoes of the genera Aedes, Anopheles and Culex are viable outside the water for several hours during early embryogenesis. This trait is associated with the presence of a serosal cuticle, which is synthesized after the formation of the exochorion. The role of eggshell pigmentation in this process has not been studied yet. We performed experiments with Anopheles quadrimaculatus strains (wild type and mutant with golden cuticle), Aedes aegypti, Anopheles aquasalis and Culex quinquefasciatus. The serosal cuticle was synthesized in all species and strains, but the melanization degree of the eggshell was different among them. The presence of melanin in the eggshell increased the viability of eggs when they were exposed to dry conditions. Our results suggest that melanization increases the resistance of mosquito eggs to desiccation, which might be an important factor for the survival of these eggs in the wild.
Helminth infections have been associated with increased susceptibility to HIV-1 infection. However, the hypothesis that helminth infections increase HIV-1 infection rates has not been tested in vivo. We used a rhesus macaque model to test the hypothesis that acute schistosomiasis increases the risk of de novo AIDS virus acquisition. Schistosomiasis was induced in rhesus macaques by percutaneous exposure to 500 cercariae of Schistosoma mansoni. Monkeys were then exposed intrarectally to successively lower doses of the recently described R5-tropic SHIV-C, SHIV-1157ipd3N4. The impact of schistosome infection on viral loads, immune cell profiles, and susceptibility to SHIV-C was determined. Parasite-free animals required 1 ml of virus stock diluted 1∶50 to establish systemic infection, while animals with schistosomiasis required only 1 ml of virus stock diluted 1∶300. The mean peak vRNA load was >1 log higher in animals with acute schistosomiasis than in controls (P<0.001). Both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were elevated in animals with schistosomiasis compared to controls, consistent with the generalized immune activation caused by schistosomiasis. Schistosome infection increased susceptibility to de novo AIDS virus transmission in primates. The increased susceptibility to mucosal immunodeficiency virus transmission we observed in schistosome-infected monkeys, elevated viral replication in coinfected hosts, and accelerated loss of memory T cells all have profound public health implications for areas of the world where both parasitic worms and HIV-1 are endemic.
Somitogenesis is a process of cell differentiation that generates repeating somites, which are the fundamental building blocks of vertebrate body axis. Although the segmentation clock is believed to regulate somite reproducibility, its effect on reproducibility in the presence of intrinsic noise remains unclear. In this study, we investigated the effect of noise on somite reproducibility using a computational model of ERK-mediated somitogenesis. The results showed that the clock helped maintain reproducibility against intrinsic noise by stepwise shifting the ERK activity in a step-like gradient. This stepwise shift was robust against noise, and its effect was enhanced by the clock. In addition, we found that the clock has a novel role in reducing the noise effect on somite reproducibility. Our results demonstrate that the segmentation clock helps maintain somite reproducibility against intrinsic noise.
The allosteric regulation of enzymes is a key mechanism to control the activity of enzymes in response to changes in their environment. Allosteric communication is mediated by inter-subunit interactions that may be modulated by oligomerization. Here, we use a computational approach to study the role of oligomerization in the allosteric regulation of enzymes. We investigate the effect of oligomerization on the intrinsic dynamics of monomeric subunits and the new cooperative modes of motion that are exploited by the intact monomers in the oligomer. The results indicate that oligomerization plays a key role in defining the collective dynamics of the oligomer. The new cooperative modes of motion are the rigid-body translational and rotational degrees of freedom of the intact monomers. The quaternary design of the oligomer is determined by the interfacial contact topology and is crucial in defining the collective motions that are being exploited by the oligomer for achieving its particular functions, including substrate binding and allosteric regulation.
The role of humans in the dispersal of predominately animal pathogens is not well understood. The study investigates the role of humans in the dispersal of dog rabies virus (RABV) in North Africa. The researchers analyzed the genetic sequences of RABV viruses from different countries in North Africa. The researchers found that the movement of RABV was largely driven by human activity. The researchers simulated the spread of dog RABV in North Africa using the phylogeographic model. The researchers used the phylogeographic model to predict the spread of RABV by simulating the virus movement based on road distances and geopolitical boundaries. The study reveals that the movement of RABV was largely driven by human activity. The findings of the study highlight the importance of human-mediated dispersal in the spread of dog RABV. The insights from the study can be applied to understand the role of humans in the dispersal of other predominately animal pathogens in the future.
Answer: The purpose of the study is to estimate the risk of dengue transmission among tourists and teams during the 2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil.
Brown adipocytes are the main cells responsible for thermogenesis in mammals, but their lineage commitment and differentiation are poorly understood. Here, we comprehensively profiled the epigenome and transcriptome of murine multipotent stem cells during brown adipogenesis. We identified a number of key regulators, including the kinase PIM1, the TFs SIX1, RREB1 and SOX13, and the TF binding motifs for these factors were enriched at the promoters of key brown cell regulators. We found that the kinase PIM1, SIX1, RREB1 and SOX13 were essential for brown adipogenesis and their over-expression or knock-down significantly affected the differentiation efficiency and thermogenic capability of brown adipocytes. Overall, this study provides a comprehensive understanding of the molecular mechanisms that control the lineage commitment and differentiation of multipotent mesenchymal stem cells into brown adipocytes.
Paracoccidioidomycosis (PCM) is a systemic fungal infection that is endemic in rural areas of Brazil. The diagnosis of PCM is based on the visualization of yeast cells or isolation of the fungus in culture medium. However, this technique is not available in all areas, especially in rural areas. Therefore, serological diagnosis of PCM is widely used. Serological diagnosis is based on the detection of antibodies against the fungus in the patient's serum. Six Brazilian reference centers that traditionally and routinely perform serological diagnosis of PCM participated in this study. Each center provided 30 sera of PCM patients from their repository, with positive high, intermediate and low titers according to their own criteria. The anonymized sera were numbered 1–30 and aliquots of 120 µl were sent to the remaining five centers to perform their own serological assays. Thus each center performed their usual serological assays in 150 sera from 5 different centers blindly with regard to the “reference” titer of the sera. The results were then sent directly to the coordinating center (IMTSP), which analyzed the data. The results show a high rate of discordance among the laboratories, strong enough to result in conflicting information regarding the patient's treatment. The recommendations made based on the results of the study are to improve standardization of the serological diagnosis of PCM.
Hookworm-related cutaneous larva migrans (CLM) is a parasitic skin disease caused by the migration of animal hookworm larvae in the epidermis. The main cause of Hookworm-related CLM is the migration of animal hookworm larvae in the epidermis. The infection occurs when third-stage larvae come into contact with human skin and penetrate into the epidermis. Since animal hookworm larvae cannot penetrate the basal membrane of the human host, they remain confined to the epidermis where they migrate for several weeks or months, and eventually die in situ. The disease is associated with pruritus and sleep disturbance. The impact of CLM on the quality of life of affected individuals is not well understood. The method used to assess the skin disease-associated life quality of CLM patients was the Dermatology Life Quality Index (mDLQI). 91 patients were included in the study. Ninety-one point five percent of patients showed a considerable reduction in skin disease-associated life quality at the time of diagnosis. The degree of impairment in skin disease-associated life quality correlated with the intensity of infection. The number of body areas affected by the infection affected the impairment in skin disease-associated life quality. The most common skin disease-associated life quality restrictions reported by the patients were intense pruritus, sleep disturbance, and feeling of shame. The outcome of treatment with ivermectin on the skin disease-associated life quality of the patients was a significant improvement.
The main cause of Zoonotic Visceral Leishmaniasis (ZVL) in the Americas is the infection of Leishmania infantum and the domestic dog (Canis familiaris). The main parasite responsible for ZVL is Leishmania infantum. The domestic dog constitutes the main reservoir in urban areas. In Brazil between 199 and 2014, 53,067 human cases were notified and currently represent around 95% of the cases notified in Latin America. Although the Brazilian northeast region is the most affected, recently VL has emerged in several areas of the Southeast region. Ecological differences in these populations could be associated with different epidemiological patterns of VL transmission. Beside the prevalence of host infection and the presence of the susceptible population, the maintenance of transmission cycles is dependent on ecological parameters that act directly on vector capacity. In the present study, we have set out observations on the dispersal, population size, duration of gonotrophic cycle and estimated survival of a population of the Lu. longipalpis complex (S)-9-methylgermacrene-B) and analyzed the results in the light of their significance in relation to visceral leishmaniasis dynamics in a highly endemic area of VL in Brazil. The study was undertaken in the urban area of Panorama municipality, located in the western region of São Paulo state, Brazil. This locality belongs to the Atlantic forest region and presents a tropical climate Aw according to Koppen's classification. Five experiments were undertaken between 2013 (February, April, September, October) and 2014 (February). Two experiments were undertaken in a domicile located in the "Bela Vista" neighborhood (21°22'08''S, 51°51'12''W) and three other experiments in a domicile located in the "Areia Branca" neighborhood (21°21'47''S, 51°50'36W) in Panorama municipality. The distance between those domiciles is around 1.3 km. The domiciles were selected due to the high frequencies of Lu. longipalpis and presence of favorable conditions (vegetation near the domiciles and animal husbandry) for the captures of this species. The residents of these domiciles provided formal consent to undertake the sand flies captures. The captures were performed with a Castro aspirator [37] in the animal shelters (chicken houses and pigsty) between 18:00 and 22:00 hours. This method was used to increase the chances of capturing naturally engorged females to estimate the duration of the gonotrophic cycle. All females were captured after a natural and full blood feeding on chicken or pigs. In each experiment, the specimens captured were sorted out by sex and subsequently marked with fluorescent powder (BioQuip) in color pink using a device described by Casanova et al. [31] and released after 24 hours. In the February (2013) experiment the sand flies marked were released at a distance of 60 m from the capture point to evaluate their dispersal and loyalty behavior. In the other four experiments the specimens were released at the capture point (0 meters). The recaptures were performed with a Castro aspirator from 19:00 to 22:00, on five consecutive days, on the walls of the domestic animal shelters and with 6–13 CDC light traps installed between 18:00 and 07:00 hours within 250 meters of the release point. All the specimens captured in each recapture attempts were euthanized (in freezer) and observed in the laboratory under stereoscopy illuminated with UV light to identify the insects marked with fluorescent power. Thereafter all the specimens were clarified and morphologically identified. During three experiments (Feb-2013, Apr-2013 and Feb-2014) engorged females were captured in chicken houses, counted, marked and released 24 hours later. The recaptures were performed as described above. All the recaptured females were immobilized by cooling during 3 minutes at 4°C and observed under UV light, and those marked were individualized in vials containing a moist plaster layer at the bottom where the females laid their
Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) colonizes the intestinal epithelium by forming apical surface adherence structures (AEAS) that are mediated by the type three secretion system (TTSS). The primary niche of infecting EPEC is the apical surface of intestinal epithelial cells. The TTSS translocates several effector proteins into the host cell, which subvert host cell processes to promote colonization. The host cells detect and respond to these effectors, but the mechanism by which they recognize EPEC is not known. Here we show that the host detects the active TTSS by a sensor, which is not surface exposed, possibly cytoplasmic. TTSS-dependent NF-κB activation is mediated by the TAK1 complex, which is activated by binding of K63-linked ubiquitin chains to TAB2/3 components. Inhibition of NF-κB activation by NleE and OspI suggests that this pathway converges with other signaling pathways that lead to NF-κB activation. These findings suggest that TTSS recognition is one of the mechanisms by which epithelial cells differentiate commensal from pathogenic bacteria.
The RNA recognition motif (RRM) of the Rbfox protein is a highly specific and versatile binding domain involved in regulation of gene expression. The RRM is responsible for protein-RNA interactions, and its specificity is determined by the sequence of the target RNA. Here, we report the use of molecular simulation approaches to predict the structural determinants of the Rbfox*•pre-miR21 complex. We describe a new mutant, S151T, which is predicted to be more selective and have higher affinity for the pre-miR21 sequence than the S151 suggested in the original design.
Schistosoma mansoni (S. mansoni) is a blood-dwelling trematode responsible for the human disease schistosomiasis. The parasite is able to survive in the host by manipulating the host’s immune response and by releasing proteins that manipulate the host’s physiology. Serine proteases are known to play an important role in this process. However, the functions of the serine proteases in schistosomes are not well understood. Here, we describe the discovery of a novel serine protease from S. mansoni, SmSP2, and its specificity for proteolytic processing of host and parasite proteins. SmSP2 is a trypsin-like serine protease with a specificity for proteolytic processing of host and parasite proteins. The parasite’s ability to recognize and interact with its hosts is mediated by the TSR-1 domain of SmSP2. Our data indicate that SmSP2 is a trypsin-like serine protease that plays a key role in the host-parasite interface. Therefore, SmSP2 may be a target for anti-schistosomal therapy.
γδ T cells are involved in the immune response to cytomegalovirus (CMV). However, their role in protection has not been firmly established and their dependence on other lymphocytes has not been addressed. We used the murine model of CMV infection to assess the role of γδ T cells in the protection against CMV-induced death and to define their anatomical sites of action. Murine CMV (MCMV) induces a robust γδ T cell response in organ transplant recipients. Herein, we show that γδ T cells are as competent as αβ T cells to protect against MCMV infection and death. In mice, γδ T cells are sufficient to control MCMV infection and protect mice from death in the absence of αβ T cells. CD3ε−/− mice, which lack αβ T cells, survived MCMV infection as efficiently as CD3ε+/− mice, in which γδ T cells were sufficient to protect against MCMV infection and death. CD3ε−/− mice also showed no liver and lung disease despite the absence of αβ T cells. These results show that γδ T cells are as competent as αβ T cells to control MCMV infection and protect against death. Finally, we demonstrate that γδ T cells are sufficient to protect against MCMV infection in the absence of NK cells.
The Plasmodium parasite is responsible for causing malaria. In this study, we analyzed the role of the Plasmodium berghei inhibitor of cysteine proteases (PbICP) in the life cycle of this parasite. PbICP was expressed in sporozoites, young trophozoites, and mature schizonts. PbICP knockout parasites were incapable of invading hepatocytes and of transmigrating through salivary glands. In addition, these parasites were incapable of completing liver stage development. Expression of PbICP-GFP in PbICPKO parasites restored gliding motility, invasion of hepatocytes, and liver stage development. In conclusion, PbICP is essential for gliding motility, invasion of salivary glands, and for liver stage development of P. berghei.
Histone H2A.Z is essential for proper control of developmental gene expression programs in embryonic stem cells (ESCs). Here we show that the divergent residues in the H2A.Z acidic patch are critical for proper lineage commitment during ESC differentiation. We generated a mutant variant of H2A.Z (H2A.ZAP3) in which the divergent residues were replaced with the corresponding residues from H2A. We found that ESCs expressing H2A.ZAP3 failed to differentiate properly and displayed changes in expression of developmental genes. In addition, H2A.ZAP3 was less tightly associated with chromatin compared to H2A.ZWT. Chromatin dynamics were also altered in H2A.ZAP3 ESCs as measured by fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP), and H2A.ZAP3 displayed higher mobility. Notably, H2A.ZAP3 was more sensitive to inhibition of transcription by flavopiridol, indicating that the mutant is more dynamic and is linked to transcription. Our results demonstrate that the divergent residues in the H2A.Z acidic patch are critical for proper regulation of H2A.Z dynamics and that its incorporation is necessary for proper lineage commitment during ESC differentiation.
Lineage tracing is a powerful tool for the study of stem cell dynamics. However, the reliability of this method in vivo has not been validated. We used our method to study the dynamics of colonic crypts and their progeny in the adult mouse. Our findings confirm that colon crypts are monoclonal and that they maintain their crypts through asymmetric cell divisions. We also demonstrated that colon crypts are clustered separately from other lineages. Our study provides evidence that the colon is constituted by few distinct progenitors and that there is no evidence for hematopoietic renewal of the intestinal epithelium during adulthood. Our findings indicate that the method used in this study may be applied to other tissues and stem cells.
The purpose of targeted cytotoxic therapies in HIV eradication strategies is to eliminate infected cells that persist despite long-term antiretroviral therapy. We characterized the impact of antiretroviral therapy (ART) on HIV RNA levels in the body and found that ART reduced HIV RNA levels in multiple organs, but did not eliminate them. We also found that targeted cytotoxic therapy was more effective than ART in reducing HIV production. Our study demonstrates the potential of targeted cytotoxic therapies to eliminate HIV-infected cells that persist despite long-term antiretroviral therapy.
Dengue is a major public health problem in many parts of the tropical developing world. In this study, we compared the sensitivity and specificity of two NS1-based rapid diagnostic tests for dengue in Vietnamese patients. The Platelia NS1 ELISA assay was more sensitive than the NS1 lateral flow rapid test (LFRT) for the diagnosis of acute dengue (83% versus 73%, P = 0.047). The sensitivity of both assays was influenced by the patient's duration of illness prior to study entry (P = 0.001). In general, NS1 detection was higher in patients with primary dengue than secondary dengue (P = 0.01). The sensitivity of both assays was also influenced by the patient's serotype (P = 0.004). Reduced sensitivity was also not associated with viraemia levels (P = 0.2).
The main cause of human deaths due to rabies is rabies-infected dogs. The majority of rabies deaths occur in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). Vaccinating at least 70% of the dog population is recommended by the World Health Organisation (WHO) to eliminate rabies amongst humans and dogs. However, vaccinating large numbers of dogs at over 70% coverage has proved challenging despite the development of a range of mass rabies vaccination strategies. Vaccination approaches which have been used include door-to-door campaigns (D2D); static point (SP) campaigns, using both fixed and temporary posts; and a combination of the two. Door-to-door programmes, which typically achieve a high vaccination coverage, are laborious, expensive and challenging to roll out on a large scale. Consequently, most rabies vaccination programmes in SSA have used SP vaccination approaches where the vaccination teams remain at a static location within a community and the local inhabitants present dogs to the vaccination teams. Although widely used in Africa as they are logistically and economically more feasible than door-to-door approaches, SP approaches have often failed to reach a high coverage. The reasons why attendance at SPs is low in many countries have surprisingly received little attention despite it being a major reason why rabies elimination programmes have been so challenging to effectively roll out in SSA. We used a multivariable logistic regression and distance estimation techniques to investigate the barriers to attendance at SP vaccination clinics in Blantyre, Malawi. The distance of the SP point was a crucial predictor of SP attendance. The distance of the SP point affected the likelihood of dog owners attending. Dogs from areas with higher proportions of people living in poverty were more likely to be presented for vaccination. A lack of awareness of the vaccination programme was important despite high local profile within the local media, communities and schools. SP vaccination stations were advertised using posters and local radio during the weeks preceding the campaign and announced using a loud speaker in the communities around each station in the days before the actual vaccinating teams arrived at the SPs. Despite these efforts, the most common reason for not attending a SP quoted by the owners was that they were not aware of the campaign.
Trypanosomes use the salivary glands (SG) of their tsetse fly hosts to produce anti-hemostatic saliva that enables successful blood feeding and transmission to mammalian hosts. We used a high throughput RNA-seq approach to compare the transcriptome of the SG from uninfected and T. brucei brucei-infected G. m. morsitans. Infection with the parasite resulted in a drastic reduction in the levels of the major SG-enriched proteins, and increased expression of genes associated with immunity, stress, cell division, and tissue remodeling. The infected SG transcriptome was enriched in contigs that are preferentially expressed in the SG, and this transcriptome was also differentially regulated in comparison to the transcriptome of the parasite from the blood stage. Infection with the parasite caused an increase in transcript levels in 1,107 (2.6%) genes that are not specific to the SG, but which are shared between different tissues represented by the whole body carcass. We also identified a large number of proteins that are differentially regulated between the SG and blood stages, and which may be involved in the post-transcriptional regulation of RNA processing mechanisms in the different stages of trypanosomes. Our findings provide a first global insight into the many molecules involved in the tsetse-trypanosome interactions, and provide a foundation for further investigations into the molecular aspects of the trypanosome dialogue with its tsetse and mammalian hosts.
Leishmania donovani is the causative agent of visceral leishmaniasis, a neglected tropical disease. Miltefosine is the only drug available for treating leishmaniasis. This work aimed to identify new antileishmanial compounds from soil bacteria. The antifungal activity of extracts of Streptomyces sp. ICBG292 and Streptomyces puniceus ICBG378 was evaluated against Escovopsis sp. and Trichoderma sp. (fungal pathogens of attine ants) and against Leishmania donovani promastigotes and intracellular amastigotes. From Streptomyces sp. ICBG292, the antibiotics Mer-A2026B (1), piericidin-A1 (2), and nigericin (3) were isolated. From Streptomyces puniceus ICBG378, the antibiotic dinactin (4) was isolated. Compounds 1–4 were highly active against intracellular amastigotes of L. donovani and presented high activity against promastigotes of L. donovani. The selectivity index of compounds 3 and 4 against L. donovani was 88.91 and 656.11, respectively. Compounds 1 and 2 were also isolated from Streptomyces sp. ICBG233, associated with workers of Atta sexdens ants, and from the organic extract of these ants by mass spectrometry. Compounds 1–4 are considered ionophores that reversibly bind and transport ions across biological membranes. The mechanism of action of nigericin (3) and dinactin (4) against L. donovani has not been described. These results indicate that Streptomyces sp. ICBG292 and Streptomyces puniceus ICBG378 are good sources of antileishmanial compounds.
The population genetics of Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense, the parasite that causes sleeping sickness in humans and livestock in East and Southern Africa, has been controversial for many years. Previous studies have suggested that T. b. rhodesiense is a clonal sub-species, but recent studies have shown that the parasite can undergo genetic exchange in the field. We have used microsatellite markers to investigate the population genetics of T. b. rhodesiense from three foci of disease in East Africa. Our data show that T. b. rhodesiense populations from East Africa are genetically diverse and that there is significant genetic exchange in the Malawi population, but not in the two foci of disease in Uganda. These findings highlight the complexity of the population genetics of T. b. rhodesiense and the dynamic nature of the parasite in the field.
How the brain learns patterns and processes information is a fundamental question in neuroscience. A number of studies have shown that spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) is a learning rule that can be used to selectively enhance the strength of recurrent connections in a network. This has been shown to be important in the auditory brainstem and in the cortex. Here, we investigate how STDP leads to the selective potentiation of recurrent connections with different axonal and dendritic delays during oscillatory activity. We use a model network that is made up of a single group of neurons with recurrent connections and receive oscillatory inputs. We show that STDP can lead to the selective potentiation of recurrent connections with a range of axonal and dendritic delays. This selective potentiation leads to the formation of oscillatory ensembles. We also show that, in the case of two groups of neurons receiving out-of-phase, oscillatory inputs, it is possible for the axonal and dendritic delays to be simultaneously encoded in the network. We extend the model to consider networks with multiple groups of neurons receiving out-of-phase, oscillatory inputs. We show that the response of the network to different input frequencies can be influenced by the axonal and dendritic delays in the network. We also show that the range of frequencies that can be learned is limited by the range of axonal delays in the network.
The purpose of using systemic insecticides in dogs as a public health intervention is to prevent human cases of Zoonotic Visceral Leishmaniasis (ZVL). We evaluated the effectiveness of the use of systemic insecticides in dogs to reduce human infection incidence using a parsimonious deterministic mathematical model. We tested different combinations of initial efficacy, duration, and dog coverage, and evaluated the threshold of dog coverage required to reduce human infection incidence by 50%. We also evaluated the model's sensitivity to baseline values of phlebotomine fly daily survival rate. Our results suggest that the use of systemic insecticides in dogs can significantly reduce human incidence of Leishmania infantum infection. The main focus of the study's mathematical model is to evaluate the impact of community-wide use of systemic insecticides on human incidence of Leishmania infantum infection. The results of the model can be used to define the insecticide target product profile and how the insecticide should be applied to maximise effectiveness. The study's findings suggest that the use of systemic insecticides in dogs can significantly reduce human incidence of L. infantum infection. The study's findings suggest that community-wide use of systemic insecticides could significantly reduce human infection incidence.
Malaria is a major public health problem in tropical regions of the world. Understanding the molecular mechanisms that trigger the release of micronemes and rhoptries during host cell invasion by Plasmodium falciparum merozoites is important for drug development. We investigated the role of intracellular calcium in the regulated secretion of microneme and rhoptry proteins during invasion. Merozoites were isolated in intracellular ionic conditions mimicking those found in blood plasma and transferred to extracellular ionic conditions mimicking those found in blood plasma. Transfer of merozoites from intracellular to extracellular ionic conditions triggered a rise in cytosolic calcium levels and release of microneme proteins to the merozoite surface. Surface expression of microneme proteins was confirmed by flow cytometry and immunofluorescence assay. Transfer of merozoites to extracellular ionic conditions that mimic those found in blood plasma triggered release of microneme proteins to the merozoite surface. Treatment of merozoites with the calcium ionophore A23187 triggered a rise in cytosolic calcium levels and release of microneme proteins to the merozoite surface. The physiologically relevant external signals that trigger the sequential release of microneme and rhoptry proteins are not known. Here, we demonstrate that exposure of merozoites to low potassium ion concentrations as found in blood plasma appears to trigger a rise in cytosolic calcium levels and release of microneme proteins to the merozoite surface. In parallel, exposure of merozoites to low potassium ion concentrations triggers release of rhoptry proteins. These observations provide a starting point for understanding the signaling pathways involved in the regulated secretion of apical organelles during invasion.
The main barrier to drug delivery in the tumor microenvironment is elevated interstitial fluid pressure (IFP). The abnormal structure of tumor vasculature is one of the leading causes of insufficient and spatially heterogeneous drug delivery in solid tumors. Tumors initiate angiogenesis to form a vascular network that can provide oxygen and nutrients to sustain its rapid growth. The production of VEGF, a growth factor that promotes angiogenesis, is triggered by the chronic hypoxic conditions that are prevalent in tumors. Besides inducing angiogenesis, it leads to hyperpermeable blood vessels by enlarging pores and loosening the junctions between the endothelial cells that line the capillary wall. Subsequently, excessive fluid extravasation from these vessels results in a uniformly elevated IFP in the central region of tumor nearly reaching the levels of microvascular pressure (MVP) while at the tumor periphery, IFP falls to normal tissue levels. This common profile of IFP within tumors has been identified as a significant transport barrier to therapeutic agents and large molecules. Normalization of vasculature in the tumor microenvironment can provide a route for drug delivery. In this study, we propose a mathematical model to simulate the impact of microenvironmental conditions and drug scheduling on normalization benefit. We evaluate the impact of combined therapy on drug extravasation. We show that combined therapy can increase the delivery of liposomes in the tumor interior region. The results demonstrate the potential of a mathematical model to simulate the effect of various conditions on normalization benefit.
HIV-1 dissemination to CD4+ T cells is a critical step in the infection process. While the mechanism of HIV-1 capture and trans infection by human immune cells has been well-characterized, the specific receptor involved in this process is unknown. Here, we demonstrate that the ganglioside, GM3, is a critical receptor involved in HIV-1 capture by immature and mature dendritic cells (DCs). GM3 is incorporated into HIV-1 particles, and DCs express the GM3 receptor, CD169. HIV-1 capture by mature DCs results in localization of virus particles at the DC – T cell infectious synapse. Transfer of captured virus particles to autologous CD4+ T cells is dependent on CD169 expression on DCs and GSLs in the virus particle membrane. Furthermore, capture of the simple retrovirus, murine leukemia virus (MLV), by murine DCs is also dependent on GSLs and CD169. These findings reveal a novel mechanism of HIV-1 dissemination to CD4+ T cells and provide insight into the molecular mechanisms of HIV-1 trans infection.
The role of cartilage proteoglycans (PGs) in skeletal development has been studied for over 40 years. The CSPG synthesis enzymes Fam20b and Xylt1 were identified recently, but their functions in vivo are unknown. Here, we report that mutations in Fam20b and Xylt1 in zebrafish cause premature perichondral bone formation. Fam20b and Xylt1 mutants show reduced levels of cartilage PGs, and Fam20b mutants show premature expression of chondrocyte maturation markers. Xylt1 mutants, in contrast, show increased expression of Runx2b, a transcription factor that regulates chondrocyte maturation. Furthermore, Fam20b and Xylt1 mutants show premature cellular differentiation of chondrocytes, as indicated by ultrastructural analyses of chondrocytes. These data demonstrate that Fam20b and Xylt1 are important in cartilage PG synthesis and have in vivo functions in regulating the timing of chondrocyte maturation and skeletal development.
Severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome (SFTS) is an emerging infectious disease with a relatively high mortality caused by SFTS virus (SFTSV). Haemaphysalis longicornis is the primary tick species responsible for transmitting SFTSV. We conducted a comprehensive survey to elucidate SFTSV ecology in ticks and small wild animals in the SFTS endemic area in Jiangsu province. We detected SFTSV-RNA in both feeding and questing H. longicornis and H. flava. Remarkably, viral RNA was detected in larvae of H. longicornis collected directly from the environment, indicating that SFTSV could be vertically transmitted in nature. SFTSV-RNA was also detected in small wild mammals including Erinaceus europaeus and Sorex araneus, and detected viral antibodies in two migratory bird species, Anser cygnoides and Streptopelia chinensis. Infection of SFTSV in the wild bird species suggests that SFTSV could be transmitted long distances by them. Our findings in this study will help formulate effective measures to deter the further spread of this deadly emerging pathogen.
The arms race between hosts and viruses is critical for understanding the evolution of life on Earth. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the arms race are poorly understood. Here, we explore the interaction between the alga Emiliania huxleyi and its specific virus EhV, during the course of infection. We used a novel microfluidic setup to measure single-cell gene expression. Our results revealed that resistant cells emerged during viral infection, showing unique expression profiles of metabolic genes that can provide the basis for discerning between viral resistant and susceptible cells within heterogeneous populations in the marine environment. Our findings provided insights into the host-virus arms race and uncovered host defense strategies. Resolving the arms race at a single-cell level can provide mechanistic insights into viral life cycles and host defense strategies.
Breast cancer is a heterogeneous disease and subtypes may be defined based on different molecular mechanisms. Here, we present a novel approach to identify changes in the network-induced functional state of genes in breast cancer, using a novel network-based framework that leverages the guilt-by-association principle. We show that such changes are not limited to the differential expression of known functional genes, but also involve changes in the network topology. We find that such changes are associated with poor patient survival and are also consistent with known cancer subtypes. Our findings highlight the importance of considering the network context of genes in understanding breast cancer subtypes.
Heterologous challenges of wild ducks with different influenza A viruses (IAV) subtypes revealed that the outcome of such challenges varied according to the phylogenetic relatedness between the viruses used. This is the first study to show that the persistence of antibody responses after a homologous infection can boost the response to subsequent heterologous infections. The study also suggests that competition between viruses induced by heterologous challenges can be influenced by the strength of host immunity.
The regulation of conjugation of plasmids in Gram-positive bacteria is poorly understood. Here we report the discovery of a novel regulatory mechanism that controls the conjugation of a mobile plasmid from Bacillus subtilis. Conjugation is activated by an intercellular signaling peptide (Phr*LS20) that regulates the activity of an anti-repressor protein, RapLS20. The activity of RapLS20 is inhibited by Phr*LS20 during early exponential and stationary growth phases, allowing efficient conjugation to occur only during a rather narrow time window near the end of the exponential growth phase. Our results provide new insights into the regulation of plasmid conjugation in Gram-positive bacteria.
Dengue virus (DENV) is transmitted by the Aedes aegypti mosquito. The early stages of infection in mosquitoes are critical for determining the outcome of infection. We performed genome-wide transcriptome analyses in A. aegypti susceptible and refractory strains at two early time points after challenge with DENV. Our data reveals that A. aegypti genes show transcriptional responses in a modular manner at early infection periods, wherein groups of genes are expressed in a tightly correlated manner. Our analysis further shows that specific biochemical pathways are enriched among these modularly expressed genes in the susceptible and refractory mosquitoes. This study suggests that gene networks are important for the early stages of DENV infection in mosquitoes.
The focus of the study was to determine the impact of annual community directed treatment with ivermectin on parasitological indicators of loiasis. The study was carried out in three community directed treatment (CDTI) project sites and a non-CDTI health district in the East Region of Cameroon. A total of 3,684 individuals were recruited from 36 communities of the 3 CDTI project sites, while 900 were from the 9 non-CDTI communities. The parasitological indicators of loiasis were measured using a thick blood film. The study results indicated that over 80% of adult respondents interviewed had participated in the ivermectin MDA at least once, although >50% of these individuals were low compliers (had taken ivermectin < 5 times). In the Northwest and Southwest CDTI projects, the prevalence and intensity of L. loa infection have decreased. One striking observation was the potential protective effect of ivermectin MDA in preventing children from developing high and very high L. loa mf loads.
The co-orientation of replication and transcription is a fundamental aspect of genome organization, but its significance in driving evolution is unclear. Here we engineered Bacillus subtilis strains with inversions in the genome, and examined the consequences of disrupting replication. We find that head-on transcription of ribosomal RNA genes disrupts replication forks, leading to DNA damage and cell death. In addition, we find that the inversion of rRNA operons in rich medium strongly disrupts replication and leads to DNA damage and cell death. This suggests that disruption of replication by head-on transcription is a major driving force in the evolution of co-orientation of replication and transcription.
Schistosomiasis is the most important helminthic disease in terms of morbidity and mortality, and is one of the major neglected tropical diseases. To accelerate discovery of intervention targets for schistosomiasis and to provide exploitable insights into the parasite biology and pathogenesis, functional genomics in schistosomes is essential. However, because parasitic flatworms at large are difficult to maintain in the laboratory due to complex developmental cycles, they remain recalcitrant to genetic/cellular manipulations, presenting a significant bottleneck for adapting state-of-the-art approaches to elucidate gene function. Here we demonstrate that HIV-1 can integrate into the genome of the human blood fluke Schistosoma mansoni. HIV-1 pseudotyped with vesicular stomatitis virus glycoprotein (VSV-G) was shown to attach to the tegument of schistosomula and adult worms, reverse transcribe the HIV-1 RNA genome, and integrate into the genome of the parasite. The integration of HIV-1 was characterized using high-throughput methods. Integration of HIV-1 into the genome of S. mansoni was widespread and was not biased towards specific genomic regions. These findings demonstrate that HIV-1 can integrate into the genome of an invertebrate.
Leptospirosis is a re-emerging disease of global importance. The main reservoir host of Leptospira spp. is the rat. Leptospires are transmitted to mammalian hosts through contact with water and soil contaminated with the urine of infected rodents. The major leptospiral lipoprotein LipL32 is the most abundant protein within the cell. In the current study we investigate the presence of post-translational modifications (PTMs) on the highly abundant leptospiral protein LipL32 from rat urine-isolated Leptospira interrogans serovar Copenhageni. Through these analyses we show that PTMs, composed of either tri-methylations or acetylations, occur solely on lysine residues from in vivo-derived LipL32. Four PTMs occurred in regions of LipL32 previously identified as B cell epitopes, and one PTM decreased epitope recognition by human leptospirosis serum. This study provides the first in vivo proteomic investigation of PTMs of a major leptospiral lipoprotein and provides insight into the potential functional consequences of such modifications.
The immune system can accommodate multiple populations of long-lived pathogen-specific effector memory CD8 T cells, but the impact of new infections on pre-existing memory populations is not well understood. Here, we show that the order of infection acquisition and the impact of new infections on pre-existing memory and the capacity of the host’s memory compartment are critical factors in shaping immunologic memory. Inflating memory responses against unrelated epitopes may develop simultaneously without any evident cost to the size of the existing or the newly generated effector memory population. However, primary MCMV infection results in rapid depletion of the pre-existing inflating T cell population in the blood and organs, and this depletion is not restored by boosting with the Ad-lacZ vector. Attrition of the pre-existing inflating memory population after MCMV infection is associated with increased apoptosis of effector memory cells in the early phase of infection.
Sex-specific mandible growth in the stag beetle Cyclommatus metallifer is dramatic and exaggerated. This sex difference in mandible growth is caused by both sex-specific sensitivity to juvenile hormone (JH) and sex-specific expression of the doublesex (Dsx) gene. Here we investigate the interactions between these two pathways in the stag beetle. We show that the sex-specific expression of Dsx is required for proper growth of secondary sexual traits. The default developmental state of mandibles in both sexes is a moderate sensitivity to JH. These findings shed light on how sex-specific traits are regulated in this species and provide new insights into the developmental mechanisms of the stag beetle.
Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is characterized by impaired glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) from pancreatic β-cells. The genes that may be associated with perturbed glucose homeostasis in human T2D have yet to be identified. We used a multi-centre approach combining gene expression data from human T2D islets with genetic screening in trisomy 21 mouse models to identify genes that may be associated with β-cell dysfunction in T2D. Using this approach, we identified a single candidate gene, Regulator of calcineurin 1 (RCAN1), which is overexpressed in human T2D islets and in mice overexpressing RCAN1, causes β-cell mitochondrial dysfunction and reduced ATP production to inhibit insulin secretion. We demonstrate that increased RCAN1 expression is associated with reduced RCAN1 methylation and is increased in response to glucose in human T2D islets. Our findings demonstrate that RCAN1 is a novel candidate gene for β-cell dysfunction in T2D.
Rabies lyssaviruses are the etiological agents of rabies, a zoonotic disease. The genetic diversity of rabies lyssaviruses is not reflected in the current classification. Therefore, we aimed to develop a standardized sub-species classification for rabies lyssaviruses using full-genome sequences. We used 562 full-genome sequences from 76 different countries. The sequences were analyzed using phylogenetic and clustering methods. The results demonstrated that the sequences can be grouped into four clusters: the New World cluster, Arctic/Arctic-like cluster, Cosmopolitan cluster, and the Asian cluster. The clustering method was computationally fast and works for any meaningful measure of similarity between data samples. The proposed clustering algorithm has the potential to become a standard method for sub-species classification in future research.
Myelin is essential for rapid saltatory conduction in the nervous system. The transcription factor Sox10 is required for myelination in Schwann cells of the peripheral nervous system. Here we show that Sox10 is also required for myelination in oligodendrocytes of the central nervous system. We define a key circuit of the myelin-specific regulatory network in oligodendrocytes and compare it to the one in Schwann cells. Sox10 and the transcription factor Myrf cooperate to implement the myelination program in oligodendrocytes. The induction of Myrf by Sox10 is direct and mediated by a conserved intronic enhancer of the Myrf gene. Sox10 and Myrf cooperate to activate myelin genes in oligodendrocytes. Synergistic activation of myelin genes is a critical step in the formation of myelin. Sox10 and Myrf thus control myelination in oligodendrocytes through a feed forward mechanism. This is similar to the one in Schwann cells, but is differentially implemented. Our findings define a new paradigm for the regulation of myelination in oligodendrocytes and show that myelination in the central nervous system and peripheral nervous system is regulated along similar general principles.
Dendritic arbors are tree-like projections that extend from neuronal cell bodies. The branching structure of a dendrite determines the way that synaptic inputs are distributed. Here, we present a new branching statistic for dendrites, the regularity index R, which is based on the average nearest neighbor (NN) distance between branch, termination or input points of a given dendritic tree, capturing the regularity of their respective distributions. We show that R correlates with local statistics of input distributions and dendrite morphology, and that it can be used to predict the input distribution (RInput) from the dendrite morphology. Using morphological models we show that RInput is a good predictor of RBP (the regularity index of branch points) and RTP (the regularity index of termination points) and that RBP and RTP are weakly correlated with other branching statistics. We also show that more regular input distributions with higher values of RInput show increased dendritic total length in the model. We expect the proposed measure R to be useful for the classification of dendritic trees.
Zinc (Zn) is crucial for immune function and its deficiency increases susceptibility to bacterial infections. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying this association are not well understood. Here, we investigate how dietary Zn restriction impacts host resistance to Streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococcus) infection in mice. We show that dietary Zn restriction exacerbates pneumococcal infection in mice, with increased bacterial burden in the lungs and blood. This is associated with increased bacterial Zn and Mn homeostasis. Further, Zn deficiency impairs the efficacy of phagocytic cells in controlling bacterial infection, with reduced phagocytic cell killing of wild-type and mutant pneumococci. Collectively, these findings show that dietary Zn restriction compromises host control of pneumococcal infection and highlight the importance of ensuring adequate Zn sufficiency to prevent bacterial infection.
Antisense transcription is a feature of gene regulation in human breast cancer cells. Downstream antisense transcription initiating within 2 kb of gene transcription start sites is common. Here, we characterize the features of downstream antisense transcription in human T47D/A1-2 cells. We find that downstream antisense transcription initiates within 2 kb of gene transcription start sites and coincides with the downstream edge of promoter-associated chromatin features. Antisense transcription is enriched for histone marks associated with active promoters and is associated with the positioning of nucleosomes. Chromatin remodeling complexes associate to the area between gene transcription start sites and downstream antisense transcription positions. We find that downstream antisense transcription is not associated with lowly expressed genes. Rather, it appears to be a feature of promoters themselves and may contribute to the establishment and maintenance of promoter-associated chromatin features.
Dengue is the most important arthropod-borne viral disease in terms of morbidity and mortality worldwide. In Brazil, the disease is an important public health problem associated with explosive epidemics. Currently, laboratorial diagnosis of dengue suspected cases is based on virus isolation in mosquito cell cultures, detection of viral RNA and DENV specific antibodies in serum or plasma. However, a number of studies have shown previously that the DENV nonstructural 1 (NS1) antigen, a highly conserved glycoprotein produced in both membrane-associated and secreted forms, is abundant in the serum of patients in the early phase of infection. Furthermore, an evaluation of the three NS1 tests for early diagnosis of dengue in Brazil was performed previously. On the other hand, the virological diagnosis in tissues specimens from dengue fatal cases shows a more complex scenario. In this study, we aimed to assess for the first time the usefulness of NS1 capture tests as a diagnostic technique to demonstrate DENV antigens in human tissue specimens. In this retrospective study, 74 tissue specimens from 23 fatal cases of dengue occurred in Brazil in 2002 were analyzed by three NS1 capture tests: Dengue Early ELISA, Platelia NS1, and the rapid test NS1 Ag Strip. The results demonstrated that the NS1 Ag Strip was the most sensitive test in detecting DENV antigen in tissues specimens from fatal cases of dengue.
The main purpose of the study was to evaluate the effectiveness of a crowdsourced HIV intervention on HIV testing uptake among men who have sex with men (MSM) in eight Chinese cities. A stepped wedge cluster randomized controlled trial was conducted in eight Chinese cities to evaluate the effectiveness of a crowdsourced intervention on HIV testing uptake among MSM. We developed an intervention consisting of a multimedia HIV testing campaign, an online HIV testing service, and local testing promotion campaigns tailored for MSM. We then conducted a closed cohort stepped wedge cluster RCT in eight Chinese cities to evaluate the impact of this crowdsourced intervention compared to conventional programs routinely provided by local Centers for Disease Control (CDCs) and community-based organizations (CBOs). The intervention was implemented over 12 months. We followed standard guidelines for reporting stepped wedge cluster RCTs (S1 CONSORT Checklist) [21]. The steps for intervention development are shown in Fig 1 and further explained in S2 Text. Three participatory activities shaped the content and structure of the intervention: a nationwide open contest call for images and concepts that encourage HIV testing, a 72-hour regional strategy designathon for developing HIV testing strategies, and local participatory contests soliciting HIV testing messages. We then conducted a closed cohort stepped wedge cluster RCT in eight Chinese cities to evaluate the impact of this crowdsourced intervention compared to conventional programs routinely provided by local Centers for Disease Control (CDCs) and community-based organizations (CBOs). The intervention was implemented over 12 months. We followed standard guidelines for reporting stepped wedge cluster RCTs (S1 CONSORT Checklist) [21]. The steps for intervention development are shown in Fig 1 and further explained in S2 Text. Three participatory activities shaped the content and structure of the intervention: a nationwide open contest, a regional strategy designathon, and local participatory contests. We then conducted a closed cohort stepped wedge cluster RCT in eight Chinese cities to evaluate the impact of this crowdsourced intervention compared to conventional programs routinely provided by local Centers for Disease Control (CDCs) and community-based organizations (CBOs). The intervention was implemented over 12 months. We followed standard guidelines for reporting stepped wedge cluster RCTs (S1 CONSORT Checklist) [21]. The steps for intervention development are shown in Fig 1 and further explained in S2 Text. Three participatory activities shaped the content and structure of the intervention: a nationwide open contest call for images and concepts that encourage HIV testing, a 72-hour regional strategy designathon for developing HIV testing strategies, and local participatory contests soliciting HIV testing messages.
CD48 is a cell surface receptor involved in the immune response, which is exploited by viruses to evade host immune defenses. Here, we report the identification of 12 CD48 homologs from different viruses. We characterized the owl monkey cytomegalovirus encoded CD48 homolog A43, which is secreted by infected cells. We show that this viral protein can act as a soluble decoy CD48 receptor, protecting cells against NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity. By binding with high affinity to 2B4, this viral protein is capable of preventing CD48:2B4 interactions. In addition, we present that A43 limits human NK cell adhesion to CD48-expressing target cells, inhibiting the formation of the NK cell immunological synapse. Thus, our findings point to a novel class of immunoevasins.
Lipid synthesis by oligodendrocytes is essential for CNS myelination. However, it is unknown whether lipid synthesis in oligodendrocytes is solely dependent on endogenous lipids or if lipids are also provided by other cell types. Here, we show that lipid synthesis by oligodendrocytes is heavily supplemented by astrocytes in vivo. When lipid synthesis in oligodendrocytes is compromised, astrocytes supply lipids to oligodendrocytes, and a lipid-enriched diet rescues myelination. Our findings highlight the critical role of astrocytes in myelin lipid synthesis and the importance of horizontal lipid flux in brain development.
Contact prediction is essential for understanding the three-dimensional structure of proteins. We show that contact prediction can be improved in three different ways, or dimensions, all important for overall success and accuracy. The first dimension is Data; it matters which MSA one uses as input to a DCA scheme. We show that in a large test data set MSAs built on HHblits alignments give more useful information than MSAs derived from the Pfam protein families database. The second dimension is Model; it matters which global model one tries to learn from an MSA, and it is possible to systematically improve upon the pairwise interaction models, or Potts models, which have hitherto been the focus of the field. We show that a simple modification to the scoring of inferred matrices (plmDCA20) significantly improves prediction precision. The third dimension is Method. It is well known that DCA by learning a Potts model describing an MSA by exactly maximizing a likelihood function is computationally unfeasible for realistic protein sizes. Most DCA methods can therefore be seen as circumventing this fact, either by approximating the likelihood function, or by using a different (weaker) learning criterion. We show that introducing gap parameters alleviates this phenomenon, increasing the prediction precision for top ranked contacts for information-poor alignments and improving the amount of correct contacts predicted for the information-rich alignments.
Hantaan virus (HTNV) infection is a severe hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome in humans. The main public health concern in Asia regarding HTNV infection is the high mortality rate among infected individuals. Here, we aimed to identify the epitopes of the HTNV nucleoprotein (NP) and evaluate the epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell response in patients infected with HTNV. The five well-conserved CD8+ T-cell epitopes of the HTNV NP were identified by interferon-γ enzyme-linked immunospot assay in 37 patients infected with HTNV during hospitalization. Two epitopes were selected for further evaluation. The frequency of epitope-specific CD8+ T cells was 0.080%–0.208% and 0.030%–0.094% for two epitopes. The frequency of epitope-specific CD8+ T cells was higher in mild/moderate patients than in severe/critical ones at the acute stage of the disease. The frequency of epitope-specific CD8+ T cells was inversely associated with the peak level of serum creatinine and the nadir of platelet counts during the hospitalization. These results suggest that the HTNV epitopes specific T-cell responses restricted by the major HLA alleles in Chinese Han population might be important for the disease control and provide new insights into the development of a peptide vaccine against HTNV infection.
The 2014–2015 Ebola outbreak had a significant impact on sleeping sickness screening and caring activities in Guinea. We evaluated the impact of the Ebola outbreak on HAT screening activities by analyzing overtime the number of persons screened during active campaign and the number of persons screened passively during the 2014–2015 period. We estimated the number of persons diagnosed with HAT, the number of patients treated, and the number of patients retained in follow-up care during the Ebola period. We also evaluated the estimated disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) generated during the pre-Ebola period and the estimated DALYs generated during the Ebola period.
The main focus of the study is to identify a genetic association between schizophrenia and the reelin (RELN) gene. The significance of the female-specific association between RELN and schizophrenia is that it highlights the importance of considering sex as a factor in genetic research. The estimated relative risk of women carrying the common genotype for RELN is 1.58. The study identifies a gene-sex interaction that replicates across multiple populations. The potential explanation for the sex-specific association between RELN and schizophrenia is that the sex-specific effect of the RELN gene. The study's findings provide the first evidence of a female-specific genetic association with schizophrenia.
The human oral cavity represents a discrete environmental niche, harboring a diverse and complex microbiome. In up to 80% of healthy individuals the fungus Candida albicans, and to a lesser extent other Candida spp. are part of this oral microbiome where they usually exist as harmless commensals. However, disturbances in the human immune status and other predisposing factors can allow the fungus to switch from a commensal to a pathogen, causing oral infections. In order to persist as part of the human oral microbiome and as a prerequisite for infection, C. albicans must adhere to other microbes and/or to epithelial host cells. Adhesion and invasion events alone do not result in host cell damage. Therefore, other, yet unidentified, activities play a role in tissue destruction. In this study we investigated the functional role of 12 previously unknown genes associated with oral candidiasis. We generated knockout mutants for each of the 12 genes and analyzed their capacity to damage oral epithelial cells in vitro. We then focused our investigations on the characterization of the novel gene DUR31 which encodes a sodium/substrate symporter. We demonstrate that DUR31 is required for oral epithelial damage, resistance to neutrophils and virulence. Furthermore, we provide mechanistic insight into the role of DUR31 in polyamine assimilation, histatin 5 import and extracellular alkalinization induced hyphal formation.
The differentiation of B cells to plasma cells is a complex process that involves the coordinated action of several transcription factors. We present a model of the regulatory network controlling terminal B cell differentiation. The model is constructed using a logical approach and it is able to describe the differentiation process of B cells from precursor B cells to plasma cells by sequential pulses of extracellular signals known to direct terminal B cell differentiation. The model is also able to describe the differentiation pattern under a variety of external signals. The dynamical behavior of the network is analyzed using two dynamical systems, a discrete and a continuous system. The continuous system is able to describe the dynamical behavior of the discrete system and predicts the existence of intermediary states that could be reached by the network but that have not been reported experimentally. The results suggest the existence of a negative feedback loop between Bcl6 and Pax5, and the existence of a positive autoregulatory circuit between Pax5 and Irf4.
