Aberrant DNA methylation is a hallmark of cancer. In human colon cancer, specific tumour suppressor genes are epigenetically silenced by promoter methylation, and the methylation patterns of human colon cancers differ from those found in normal tissue. To investigate early epigenetic alterations in mouse intestinal adenoma, we compared normal and adenomatous tissues of wildtype C57BL/6J (B6) and isogenic APCMin mice by immunoprecipitation of methylated DNA followed by massively parallel sequencing (MeDIP-seq). We identified 13,980 differentially methylated regions (DMRs), of which 5,135 were hypermethylated and 8,845 hypomethylated in adenoma. Bisulfite pyrosequencing of purified adenoma cells revealed that the DMR signature is de novo in adenoma cells rather than by expansion of a pre-existing pattern. We found a core epigenetic map of intestinal cancer DMRs, which is conserved between mice and humans. These data suggest that the epigenetic deregulation in tumours can be divided into two principal components, an early and fast instructive patterning mechanism, which immediately follows tumour initiation, and late rare stochastic events promoting clonal expansion. Our data provide a catalogue of early epigenetic alterations in intestinal adenoma, and may facilitate the selection of more specific clinical epigenetic biomarkers.
Trypanosoma cruzi is a protozoan parasite that causes Chagas disease, which is endemic to Latin America. The pathogenesis of Chagas disease is not clearly understood. The two major genetic groups of T. cruzi are TcI and TcII, and it is known that TcII is associated with more severe disease. In this study, we evaluated the effects of infection with TcI (Col cl1.7) and TcII (Y strain) on monocytes and T cells. We show that monocytes infected with either TcI or TcII have a higher expression of HLA-DR, TLR-2, CD80 and CD86, and that this activation is correlated with the production of TNF-alpha, IL-12/IL-23p40, IL-10 and Granzyme A. The expression of these molecules is also correlated with the production of TNF-alpha by T cells. Our data show that infection with TcI leads to a more anti-inflammatory response, while infection with TcII leads to a more inflammatory response. These results suggest that TcI and TcII have a distinct immunological impact on human cells during early infection, which could influence the clinical course of Chagas disease.
DNA polymerase ν (Poln) is a DNA polymerase that is present in testis of mammals and some other metazoans. It is a specialized enzyme that is present in germ cells and is essential for meiotic recombination. Here, we report that Poln is not required for viability in mice, but it is required for efficient recombination at the A3 meiotic hotspot. We also report that Poln is not involved in DNA crosslinking agent resistance. These findings suggest that Poln has a specialized role in meiotic recombination.
Dengue virus is a growing threat to public health. Vaccination is a cost-effective strategy to combat the threat of infectious disease. Unfortunately, an approved dengue vaccine is not present, despite tremendous efforts in previous decades. Recently, the results of a phase 2b trial of the CYD tetravalent dengue vaccine in Thai schoolchildren of 4–11 years of age were reported. The overall efficacy of the vaccine was 30.2%. One or more doses of the vaccine reduced the incidence of dengue-3 and dengue-4 febrile diseases by 80–90%, with a smaller reduction in diseases caused by dengue-1. However, there was no efficacy against dengue-2. The findings from the study suggest a new approach to the development of dengue vaccines.
Signaling cascades are the basic building blocks of cellular communication, but they are inherently variable due to fluctuations in signaling protein expression. Here, we characterize the dose-response behavior of protein kinase cascades and analyze how cell-to-cell variability is modulated by negative feedback regulation, gene expression noise, and correlated protein concentration fluctuations. We find that cell-to-cell variability is high in gradual signaling cascades, but is drastically reduced by negative feedback regulation and correlated protein concentration fluctuations. Our findings provide new insights into the design principles of robust signaling cascades and suggest that robustness is achieved by a trade-off between pathway sensitivity and maximal activation level.
CD8+ T cells are essential for the control of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in the spleen. However, the mechanisms of immune evasion by Leishmania donovani parasites are not well understood. We investigated the role of CD8+ T cells in the immune response to L. donovani infection and found that parasites evade CD8+ T cell responses by limiting their expansion and inducing functional exhaustion and cell death. To determine the extent and significance of bystander activation and distinguish it from antigen-specific responses, we compared the expansion of adoptively transferred OT-I CD8+ T cells in mice infected with wild type (LV9) and ovalbumin-transgenic (PINK) L. donovani parasites. Although at day 4 after infection there were 20 times fewer OT-I CD8+ T cells in the spleen of PINK infected mice compared to naïve mice, these cells were 20 times fewer than those detected in LV9 infected mice, despite similar parasite burdens. Following transfer of 104 OT-I CD8+ T cells in PINK infected mice, maximum expansion was reached at day 9, and the expansion was 100–200 times lower compared to LV9 infections. By day 14, the number of OT-I CD8+ T cells in PINK infected mice was still 10 times higher then in LV9 infected mice, which had returned to baseline levels. OT-I CD8+ T cells following PINK infection displayed a biphasic activation pattern, with limited expansion during the first wave of activation and functional exhaustion and cell death during the second wave. This exhaustion was associated with the upregulation of B7-H1 on dendritic cells and the downregulation of T-bet, a molecule involved in the induction of effector cell differentiation. Blockade of B7-H1 prevented cell death and enhanced the survival of CD8+ T cells, but failed to restore cytokine production. This suggests that the in vivo B7-H1 blockade significantly improved the survival of CD8+ T cells and that CD8+ T cells are the main mediators of protection following infection with PINK. These findings suggest that targeting CD8+ T cells could be an effective strategy for immunotherapeutic interventions against VL.
The prion protein (PrP) is a key component of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs), which are a group of neurodegenerative diseases that affects humans and many mammals. The structure of PrP is not known, but it is believed that misfolding of the protein leads to the formation of amyloid fibrils. Here we have used molecular dynamics simulations to study the effect of protonation of the buried residue H187 on the structure of mammalian PrP. We show that the protonation of H187 leads to a reorganization of the protein structure that involves the unraveling of the helix H2(Cter) and the elongation of the loop S1,S2. We also show that the electrostatic repulsion between H187 and R136, a key partner of H187, is responsible for these structural changes. Finally, we show that the protonation of H187 leads to two possible transition routes for the misfolding of PrP, which could explain the observed strain variability. Our findings provide insight into the molecular mechanism of the prion diseases.
Trachomatous trichiasis (TT) is a common cause of visual impairment worldwide. The current WHO advice is that all patients with TT should be offered surgery. However, many individuals with TT decline surgical treatment. In this study we report the outcomes of a randomised controlled trial of epilation versus surgery for minor TT in Ethiopia at two- and four-years. At the two-year follow-up, 579 (89%) of 650 participants randomised to surgery had undergone surgery, while 572 (88%) of 650 participants randomised to epilation were still epilating. At four-years, 579 (89%) of 650 participants randomised to surgery had undergone surgery, while 189 (33%) of 650 participants randomised to epilation had undergone surgery and 383 (67%) were still epilating. The epilation-only group had more baseline trichiasis, entropion and corneal conjunctivalisation than either the surgery arm or the epilation-to-surgery group. There was no difference in visual acuity or corneal opacity between the groups at four-years. Epilation was more effective than surgery for controlling trichiasis, but there was no difference in change in visual acuity or corneal opacity between the groups at four-years. Epilation can be an effective second-line alternative to surgery for minor TT, particularly for individuals who either decline surgery or do not have immediate access to surgical treatment.
Macrophages (MØ) are important targets for dengue virus (DV) infection. The macrophage mannose receptor (MR) is a prototypic marker of alternatively activated macrophages and is shown to be involved in DV infection. We demonstrate that the MR binds to DV grown in mosquito cells and to recombinant mammalian cell–produced DV envelope glycoprotein. A recombinant MR fusion protein (CRD4–7-Fc) was shown to recognize DV envelope (E) protein in ELISA and blot overlays, and binding was inhibited by mannose, fucose and EDTA. The presence of MR on transfected cells is sufficient to confer DV binding. DV infection of MØ was blocked by antibodies against the human MR suggesting that it is a novel functional receptor contributing to DV infection. We also show that pre-treatment of primary human monocytes with Th2 cytokines (IL-4/IL-13), which upregulate MR expression, increases their susceptibility to DV infection in vitro. Better understanding of receptor/s and entry pathways mediating infection in humans could be crucial to the design and safety of a dengue vaccine.
Homeostatic plasticity is known to play a role in maintaining neural and behavioral dynamics at rest. However, the role of homeostatic plasticity in maintaining neural and behavioral dynamics in the context of spontaneous neural dynamics is not well understood. We adapted a simple model of neural dynamics to simulate the interactions between a simple agent and a virtual environment. We showed that homeostatic plasticity in the model allowed the agent to move freely through the environment and explore it more fully. Without homeostatic plasticity, the agent was unable to move freely, becoming trapped in a state of low activity or in a state of high activity. We also found that the presence of a macroscopic homeostatic plasticity mechanism, alongside the local homeostatic mechanism, allowed the agent to escape brain-environment feedback loops and move more freely through the environment. This work provides a simple example of the importance of homeostatic plasticity in maintaining neural and behavioral dynamics in the context of spontaneous neural dynamics.
Long-distance chromosomal interactions have been shown to regulate gene expression in various organisms. However, the extent to which these interactions regulate gene expression in budding yeast is unknown. Here we show that long-distance chromosomal interactions can regulate gene expression in yeast, using an insulated promoter flanked by invariable sequences of more than 1 kb. We identified three distinct patterns of gene expression that are associated with different mechanisms. The first pattern is due to Sir2-mediated silencing, the second is due to transcriptional interference, and the third is due to clustering of Met4-targeted genes. We further showed that clustering of Met4-targeted genes can lead to overexpression of MET3pr. Our data indicate that clustering of Met4-targeted genes can be an important mechanism for gene regulation in yeast.
During meiosis, recombination is confined to homologous chromosomes, allowing proper segregation of homologs. Recombination is initiated by crossover placement, which is controlled by unknown mechanisms. We examined the role of Pch2, a protein that plays roles in meiotic recombination and chromosome axis organization. Pch2 is required for crossover placement and chromosome axis shortening, and is defective in a mutant with reduced crossover placement. In pch2Δ, Pch2 does not affect overall crossover levels, yet is required for proper placement of crossovers in adjacent intervals. Pch2 is also required for proper spore viability when recombination is reduced, and for maintenance of chromosome axis length. Pch2 plays a key role in coordinating crossover placement and chromosome axis organization.
RIN4 is a negative regulator of plant innate immunity. Here, we report the identification and characterization of the Arabidopsis RIN4 protein complex. We were able to purify six novel RIN4-associated proteins by immunoaffinity chromatography. We identified two novel RIN4-associated proteins, the plasma membrane H+-ATPases AHA1 and AHA2, which interact with RIN4. RIN4 overexpression enhances PM H+-ATPase activity and vice versa, suggesting that RIN4 is a positive regulator of the PM H+-ATPases AHA1 and AHA2. We also demonstrate that the rin4 knockout cannot re-open its stomata in response to virulent Pst, indicating that RIN4 is involved in regulating stomatal apertures in response to pathogen attack. These results provide new insights into the role of RIN4 in plant innate immunity and highlight the importance of guard cells in regulating plant immune signaling.
The epidemiological and economic impact of routine larviciding against Aedes (Stegomyia) albopictus in European towns with temperate climate is evaluated. We use a mathematical model of mosquito population dynamics and transmission dynamics, coupled with a cost-utility analysis. We simulate the transmission dynamics of dengue and chikungunya, and we evaluate the effect of routine larviciding against Ae. albopictus in a temperate climate. We consider different strategies for larviciding of public catch basins and private breeding sites, and we assess their effectiveness and cost-effectiveness. We find that routine larviciding is effective in reducing the risk of local transmission of dengue and chikungunya, and that it has a high economic benefit. The most cost-effective strategy is routine monthly larviciding of public catch basins in small towns with high mosquito abundance. In larger towns, a moderate larviciding effort (1 to 3 treatments within the season) is recommended.
The ability of echolocating bats to avoid obstacles in their environment is an open question. Indeed, it is unclear which sensory cues bats use to avoid obstacles and whether these cues can be extracted from the echoes returning from complex objects. Here, we propose a minimal set of cues—Interaural Intensity Differences and echo delay—sufficient to support obstacle avoidance in Rhinolophidae. We test our hypothesis in both 2D and 3D environments using a simulated bat. Our results show that the proposed controller can avoid obstacles even in the presence of complex environments and a multitude of echoes. We propose that the bats use the first millisecond of the echo train to extract the relevant cues. This allows the bat to avoid obstacles even in the presence of complex echoes.
Metabolic networks are among the most complex biological structures, and their evolution has been the subject of much speculation. Here we explore the possibility that a universal principle of metabolic organization may have shaped the evolution of metabolism. We combine the study of an idealized artificial chemistry with systems biology approaches to systematically compute pathways that are optimal for an array of elementary metabolic tasks. Behind the apparent complexity of the pathways, we identify recurring, modularly organized categories of network topologies, and analytically predictable trends in pathway length. In addition, we observe the emergence of “universal metabolic tools” across all optimal pathways. Finally, despite the huge gap in the underlying chemical rules, we find that some properties of real metabolic pathways are consistent with the patterns detected in the model. This suggests that fundamental optimality principles may have played a role in shaping biochemical networks.
The purpose of the presented method is to reveal time-varying migration rates and population sizes in a population. The method takes as input geographic coordinates for a set of individuals sampled across a spatial landscape, and a matrix of their genetic similarities as measured by sharing of long pairwise shared coalescence (lPSC) segments. It then infers two maps, one representing dispersal rates across the landscape, and another representing population density. The method is based on a stepping-stone model where randomly-mating subpopulations are connected to neighboring subpopulations in a grid.
Insulin resistance impairs hepatic wound healing, but the mechanisms are unclear. We show that insulin receptor substrate 2 (Irs2), a key adaptor protein of the insulin receptor, is required for hepatic wound healing and epithelial repair during chronic injury. Irs2−/− mice have reduced fibrogenic reversion and increased fibrosis, accompanied by failure to induce fibroblast growth factor 7 (Fgf7) expression in the fibrotic stroma and impaired epithelial Fgfr2-IIIb expression. Using a human model of bipotent adult liver progenitor cells, we demonstrate that IRS2 regulates Fgf7 expression in liver-derived human hepatocyte-like cells (HepaRG) in vitro and promotes their differentiation into hepatocyte-like cells. In contrast, IRS2 silencing in the fibrotic stroma delayed Fgfr2-IIIb expression and hepatocyte differentiation in adjacent epithelial progenitors. We also demonstrate that IRS2 can act upstream of FGF7/FGFR2-IIIb signaling in the fibrotic stroma to promote heterotypic paracrine crosstalk between stromal and bipotent adult liver progenitor cells, which is essential for epithelial repair. We propose that insulin resistance impairs local cellular crosstalk between stroma and LPCs, leading to impaired epithelial repair in the liver.
The UPR, and specifically the ire-1/xbp-1 arm of the UPR, is important even under normal physiological conditions (i.e. in the absence of induced ER stress), as perturbations in this pathway impair secretory protein metabolism. Here, we show that in C. elegans ire-1 deficiency elicits a secretory block in the PVD neuron that interferes with the targeting of the DMA-1 receptor to the plasma membrane, strengthening similar results by Wei et al. (2013). We further reveal that this trafficking block, which does not occur in xbp-1 mutants, can be bypassed by reducing insulin/IGF signaling to restore normal arbor architecture. Altogether, this work assigns a conserved role for IRE-1 function in neuronal development and demonstrates that activation of alternative ER homeostasis-promoting pathways can counteract and prevent the deleterious consequences of compromised ER homeostasis on neuronal development.
The redox homeostasis of the cell is a critical function for cell survival. In Escherichia coli, the ArcAB two component system coordinates changes in gene expression in response to changes in the respiratory and fermentative state of the cell. The ArcAB system is maximally activated in anaerobic fermentative conditions when NADH from central metabolism is recycled to NAD+ by formation of the end products succinate, ethanol and lactate. Here, we mapped the regulon of the ArcAB two component system using genome-wide approaches. In vivo footprinting revealed a novel architecture for ArcA binding sites and a plasticity in the binding site architecture that likely has important implications for global regulation of carbon metabolism. We also found that ArcA directly regulates the expression of nearly 100 operons, most of which are associated with carbon oxidation pathways and transporters. Under anaerobic conditions, ArcA reprograms metabolism by either directly or indirectly repressing expression of nearly all pathways for carbon sources whose oxidation is coupled to aerobic respiration. Our findings provide insight into the physiological role of ArcA in maintaining redox homeostasis and suggest a global mechanism for the regulation of carbon metabolism.
The retinoblastoma tumor suppressor gene (Rb) is frequently mutated in human malignancies. The Rb protein inhibits E2F transcription factors, which control expression of genes crucial for cell cycle re-entry. In this study, we have identified and characterized a zebrafish mutant harboring a mutation in the usp39 gene, which encodes a neuronal splicing factor. The usp39 mutant exhibits microcephaly and an expansion of all adenohypophyseal cell lineages. RNA splicing analysis revealed a defect in Rb1 mRNA splicing, resulting in a premature termination codon. Overexpression of e2f4 in usp39 mutants partially rescued the phenotype, indicating that e2f4 is responsible for at least a partial contribution to the observed pituitary phenotype. Our study reveals a novel mechanism by which usp39 regulates pituitary development through rb1/e2f4 pathway.
Cytomegalovirus (HCMV) infection of the developing fetus is a major cause of perinatal brain damage. In this study, we have utilized a murine model of HCMV infection to demonstrate that inflammation in the developing CNS of newborn mice is a major contributor to the developmental abnormalities that occur following this intrauterine infection. We have shown that treatment of mice with glucocorticoids, an anti-inflammatory agent, normalized developmental abnormalities in the cerebellum of mice following infection with mouse cytomegalovirus (MCMV). These findings suggested that inflammation in the developing brain of neonatal animals is a major cause of abnormal development. In addition, we have demonstrated that inflammation in the developing brain of neonatal animals could be modulated by treatment with glucocorticoids and that this modulation could limit the developmental abnormalities that occur following infection. These findings suggest that inflammation in the developing brain of neonatal animals should be considered a potential contributor to at least some of the developmental abnormalities that occur following intrauterine HCMV infection.
Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) are a major cause of diarrheal illness in developing countries. A complete list of ETEC strains examined in the study is included in table 1. The passenger domains of autotransporter proteins were identified in multiple ETEC strains using bioinformatics approaches, and the presence of these proteins on the bacterial surface was confirmed by flow cytometry. Immunoblotting of sera from mice following experimental ETEC infection, as well as from children with ETEC diarrhea, demonstrated that the passenger domains of autotransporter proteins are recognized during the course of infection. Vaccination of mice with recombinant passenger domains of autotransporter proteins afforded protection against intestinal colonization with ETEC. These findings suggest that passenger domains of autotransporter proteins may be useful targets for ETEC vaccine development.
Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever (CCHF) is a severe and often fatal infection caused by the CCHF virus (CCHFV). We report the clinical and epidemiological features and outcomes of cases of CCHF diagnosed in Oman between 1995 and 2017. A retrospective descriptive record-based review and analysis of CCHF cases was conducted over the period 1995 through 2017. CCHF has been listed as a notifiable disease in Oman since 1995 and surveillance forms from suspected cases are submitted by all healthcare providers to the Communicable Diseases Department at Ministry of Health headquarters. Blood samples obtained from suspected cases were submitted at the same time to the Central Public Health Laboratory (CPHL) at the MoH in Muscat, Oman. All CCHF cases reviewed and included in this study were detected by this routine communicable disease surveillance combined with the CPHL results during the study period. A generic national form is used for initial notification of a suspected case of CCHF; once the diagnosis is confirmed, a more detailed form is submitted that includes patient identifiers, demographic and geographic variables, relevant exposure history, key clinical features, and some clinical laboratory test results. The case definition for a suspected case in Oman is: an illness with sudden acute onset with the following clinical findings: a fever ≥ 38.5°C (> 72 hours to < 10 days) associated with severe headache, myalgia, nausea, vomiting, and/or diarrhea; thrombocytopenia < 50 x 109/L; hemorrhagic manifestations which develop later and may include petechial rashes, bleeding from the gums, nose, lungs, gastrointestinal tract, or skin; history of tick bite, occupational exposure, contact with fresh tissues, blood, or other biological fluids from an infected animal; history of case within 14 days prior to the onset of symptoms. Good laboratory practice and a high level of effective biosafety precautions are required by laboratory staff handling materials from suspected CCHF cases due to the potential for sample-to-person, or indirect, transmission. Blood samples collected from suspected cases of CCHF admitted to all MoH and non-MoH health care institutions in Oman are sent to CPHL in triple pack containers, using the most direct and timely route available. These samples are considered urgent and results are provided within 24 hours of their arrival at CPHL. National guidelines are in place to instruct local laboratories where suspected cases are admitted on safe handling of all material collected for any diagnostic purpose. Both serum and plasma samples are requested for CCHFV testing. Plasma is preferred for molecular testing using a commercial CCHFV real time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (rRT-PCR) kit (In vitro Diagnostics, Liferiver Shanghai ZJ Bio-Tech Co., Ltd. Shanghai, China). At CPHL, the plasma extraction takes place inside a gloved box using a manual extraction system, QIAamp Viral RNA Kit (QIAGEN, Hilden, Germany). The samples are first treated with AVL buffer (QIAGEN) to inactivate infectious viruses and RNases. Intact viral RNA is then purified by selective binding and washing steps. The screening RT-PCR reaction is based on a one step real-time RT-PCR. Briefly, CCHFV RNA is converted into cDNA and a thermostable DNA polymerase is used to amplify specific CCHFV S segment sequence targets by standard thermocycling in a PCR as per manufacturer instruction. The kit contains an internal control to identify possible PCR inhibition. A positive result from a RT-PCR screening for CCHFV RNA is used to confirm infection. In such cases, the serum sample is not tested further. If the RT-PCR is negative, heat inactivated serum (56°C water bath for 30 minutes) is tested for CCHFV antigen and IgM and IgG antibodies using a commercial kit (Vector-Best, Novosibirsk, Russia). For samples that are negative for all parameters, a convalescent serum is requested for CCHF IgG
Robustness against fluctuation of intracellular parameters is a common design principle of biological systems. However, the mechanism of robustness against fluctuation remains unclear. In this study, we experimentally show that dosage imbalance between certain genes can cause fragility in biological systems. We used a computational model to evaluate the robustness of the budding yeast cell cycle against overexpression of certain genes and found that the robustness is caused by the quantitative balance between the enzymes and their inhibitors. We thus propose that dosage imbalance is the cause of fragility in biological systems.
The herpesvirus KSHV is a common pathogen that causes Kaposi’s sarcoma and multicentric Castleman disease in humans. The lytic cycle of KSHV is critical for its pathogenesis and oncogenic potential. The viral lytic cycle is regulated by the encoded lytic antigen RTA, which induces the expression of lytic genes in the absence of cytokine stimulation. Here, we show that RTA also induces the degradation of STAT6, a transcription factor that is activated by IL-4 and IL-13 in the presence of KSHV. RTA induces K48- and K63-linked ubiquitylation of STAT6 for degradation via the proteasome and lysosomal pathway, which is dependent on the transcriptional activity of RTA. The degradation of STAT6 is also dependent on its transactivation domain and its association with RTA. The degradation of STAT6 is critical for the reactivation of the KSHV lytic cycle and the regulation of cell survival and stress response. The degradation of STAT6 also leads to the increased expression of a tumor suppressor, TRIML2, which is required for KSHV lytic cycle. Our findings suggest that degradation of STAT6 is a critical pathway for the reactivation of the KSHV lytic cycle and the development of Kaposi’s sarcoma.
The objective of this study was to determine the magnitude of seroprevalence and seroconversion among the surveyed population and establish the individual/household level risk factors for the presence of DENV antibodies. Serum samples were collected from 1125 individuals during the pre-monsoon (June and July) and 600 individuals during the post-monsoon (November) of 2012 in the city of Dhaka, Bangladesh. Serum samples were tested for antibodies to DENV by ELISA. A total of 1,200 households were included in the study. The overall DENV seroprevalence during pre-monsoon was 80.0% and 93.2% during post-monsoon. The seroprevalence rate among all participants during the pre-monsoon season was 80.0%. Of the 600 participants who were seronegative during the pre-monsoon survey, 57.7% (56 of 1125) seroconverted to either IgG or IgM antibodies or both immunoglobulins during the post-monsoon period. Seroprevalence increased with age and was significantly associated with indoor potted plants, types of mosquito control measures, and attendance in public gatherings. Age, indoor potted plants, and types of mosquito control measures were significantly associated with seroconversion after adjusting all other variables. Seroprevalence was positively associated with age and attendance in public gatherings, and negatively associated with indoor potted plants.
The strict anaerobe Clostridium difficile is a major cause of nosocomial diarrhea. The strict anaerobe C. difficile produces spores that are transmitted to the host through the fecal-oral route. The spores are transmitted by the terminal mother cell, which is responsible for sporulation and spore maturation. In this work, we studied the role of the skinCd element, which interrupts the sigK gene encoding a transcriptional regulator, in sporulation and in the excision of the skinCd element. We show that skinCd excision requires CD1231, a recombinase-like protein that is encoded by the gene of the skinCd element, and CD1234, a gene under the control of σE and SpoIIID. CD1234 is a small protein, with a pI of 5.5, and no significant sequence similarity to known proteins. CD1234 is expressed in both the mother cell and in the forespore and is required for skinCd excision. CD1231 is expressed in the mother cell and in the forespore, but is not required for skinCd excision. Thus, CD1234 restricts skinCd excision to the mother cell. Moreover, the premature activity of σK in sporulation in C. difficile results in alterations in the assembly of the spore surface layers.
The human microbiome is increasingly recognized as a key player in health and disease. We developed a computational tool for metagenomics-based prediction tasks based on machine learning classifiers (i.e., support vector machines (SVMs), random forests (RFs), Lasso, and Elastic Net (ENet)) and applied it to a total of 2424 publicly available metagenomic samples from eight large-scale studies of different diseases. We evaluated the prediction capabilities of the microbiome using cross-validation, cross-study validation, and cross-disease validation. We also investigated the use of strain-specific markers for disease prediction and the transferability of models across studies and cohorts. We obtained good classification performance for most of the considered disease states, although the best accuracies were generally achieved by using SVM and RF classifiers. We also found that the prediction capabilities of the models were strongly influenced by the confounding factors of active treatment and of the sample collection approach. We identified biomarkers for the “healthy” versus “diseased”-associated microbiome that are also relevant for future microbiome studies of new diseases.
HLA-B*5701 is the host factor most strongly associated with slow HIV-1 disease progression. Here we investigate in depth the relationship between HIV-1 evolutionary rate and risk of disease progression in HLA-B*5701 subjects. The study includes six untreated HIV-1 infected subjects (P1-P6) carrying the HLA-B*5701 allele, followed longitudinally from early infection up to seven years. Bayesian molecular clock estimates, based HIV-1 gag p24 sequences, were analyzed in combination with in vitro viral replication capacity and immune activation data. The integration of experimental data with coalescent-based estimates allowed to develop, for the first time, a possible explanation for the correlation between HIV-1 in vivo replication rate and different risk of disease progression in HLA-B*5701 subjects. We found that HIV-1 evolutionary rate was lower in low-risk progressors (LRPs) than in high-risk progressors (HRPs), but no differences in site-to-site variation of synonymous substitutions or in nonsynonymous/synonymous substitution rates along different branches of the viral genealogies were observed between the two groups of patients. In addition, the analysis detected a strong inverse correlation between HIV-1 synonymous substitution rate and baseline CD4+ T cell counts. The finding suggests a mechanistic link between CD4+ T cell count and the virus replication rate, by indicating that HLA-B*5701 subjects with CD4+ T cell counts >750 cells/mm3 within the first 10–11 weeks of the infection will keep HIV-1 replication under better control during the subsequent years.
Choline analogs are potent inhibitors of choline uptake in protozoa. However, the mechanism of action of these compounds is still unknown. Here, we show that depletion of TbMCP14, a member of the mitochondrial carrier protein family, results in increased resistance of African trypanosomes to choline analogs G25, T3, and T4. Over-expression of TbMCP14 in procyclic forms resulted in hypersensitivity towards T3, whereas depletion of TbMCP14 resulted in growth arrest. Mitochondrial membrane potential was decreased in parasites over-expressing TbMCP14, whereas depletion of TbMCP14 protected against drug-induced decrease in ΔΨm. In addition, depletion of TbMCP14 resulted in growth arrest in the presence of glucose. In contrast, depletion of TbMCP14 in glucose-depleted medium did not result in growth arrest. Conditional knock-out of TbMCP14 in bloodstream forms resulted in reduced parasite proliferation. We show that TbMCP14 is involved in energy production in mitochondria.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are the largest superfamily of membrane proteins and play a vital role in many physiological and pathological processes. Orphan GPCRs, which are considered to have endogenous ligands, attract a great deal of interest in deorphanization. However, many orphan GPCRs cannot be deorphanized by discovery of a natural ligand and will remain genuinely orphan GPCRs. Here, we investigated the bombesin receptor subtype-3 (BRS3) in placental mammals, including humans, and found that BRS3 underwent positive selection in the placental mammalian lineage and became a genuinely orphan GPCR in placental mammals. Furthermore, we showed that BRS3 in placental mammals lost the connection with its original ligands, NMB and GRP, and became constitutively active via three key residues (R127Q, S205P, and H294R) and a novel G protein selectivity barcode. Our results suggest that positive selection in placental mammals might lead to the emergence of new orphan GPCRs that function constitutively in a ligand-independent manner.
The sleep state of animals and humans is a complex and intriguing topic in medical research. To perform accurate sleep scoring, animal researchers use manual inspection of EEG/EMG recordings. This task is highly subjective and the agreement between human experts is not perfect. To address this challenge, we propose a deep learning architecture SPINDLE which is capable of learning robust features that generalize across different experimental conditions. SPINDLE was trained on a wildtype mouse cohort, and then evaluated on 12 mice and 8 rats from four animal cohorts. The SPINDLE architecture is able to generalize across different experimental conditions, and its performance is comparable to that of human experts. In addition, SPINDLE is able to detect mutation-induced sleep alteration.
Toxoplasma gondii is an important intracellular pathogen that can cause severe disease in humans and animals. The parasite is able to manipulate host cell metabolism to its advantage and it is not clear how it manages to do so. We show that the parasite is able to salvage isoprenoids from the host and that this ability is exploited by a bifunctional enzyme that synthesizes isoprenoids from the host isoprenoid precursors. We propose that the parasite's ability to use host isoprenoids for its growth and survival is an Achilles' heel that could be targeted for therapy. We show that statins, drugs that inhibit cholesterol synthesis, are effective against T. gondii. We also show that combining statins with a bisphosphonate that targets the parasite's isoprenoid pathway results in a stronger inhibition of parasite growth. This strategy could be adapted to other parasites.
The three species associated with the Sigatoka disease complex on banana, Pseudocercospora fijiensis, Pseudocercospora musae, and Pseudocercospora eumusae, have evolved from a common ancestor and exhibit different virulence spectra on the Musa species host. To understand the genomic changes associated with the evolution of virulence in these pathogens, we compared the genomes of P. musae and P. eumusae with the recently published genome of P. fijiensis. The analysis revealed a high density of LTR-retrotransposons in the genome of P. fijiensis, which was not present in the genome of P. musae and P. eumusae. The two more aggressive pathogens also exhibited a higher number of gene families shared exclusively between the three species, which could facilitate virulence specifically to the banana host. However, species-specific adaptations, rather than changes in the core genome, also contributed to the evolution of virulence in these pathogens.
Leishmania infantum is the etiological agent of visceral leishmaniasis (VL), a disease that can cause severe morbidity and mortality in humans. The molecular mechanisms that lead to the pathogenesis of VL are poorly understood. We investigated the transcriptional activity of peripheral blood from patients with VL, patients under remission of disease, healthy individuals that were asymptomatically infected with L. infantum, and control individuals that were uninfected. We identified transcriptional signatures associated with distinct states of infection, which are mainly characterized by up-regulation of pathways related to type I interferon signaling, activation of T cell responses, and down-regulation of innate immune responses. Our results suggest that infections with L. infantum induce significant changes in the abundance of blood transcripts and that the patterns of gene expression depend on the clinical status after infection or activity of the disease.
The paradox of cooperation is that natural selection should favor exploitative individuals that avoid paying their fair share of any costs, yet cooperation can also evolve. The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum provides a compelling model for studying the evolution of cooperation and conflict. The amoeba aggregates and differentiates to form a fruiting body composed of dead stalk cells that hold aloft a sporehead bearing hardy spores. Different genotypes will allocate resources differently and thus exhibit conflict over the common good. Here, we use a mathematical model to test whether the complex partner-specific social success observed in D. discoideum can be explained by the production and response of a single signaling system. We find that the production and response of this signaling system can account for the complex partner-specific social behavior observed in D. discoideum. Our findings suggest that even though complex and seemingly unpredictable outcomes can result from social interactions, they can be governed by a set of simple rules.
The localization of mRNAs encoding secreted/membrane proteins (mSMPs) to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is essential for proper cellular organization and protein secretion. We have identified a conserved cis-regulatory targeting element (SECReTE) that is enriched in secretome-encoding transcripts in yeast and humans. SECReTE is composed of ≥10 consecutive pyrimidine repeats and is positioned in the coding region, with a preference for the second and third codon positions. SECReTE is present in mSMPs regardless of whether they encode transmembrane domains or not. SECReTE is not restricted to coding sequences and is present in untranslated regions (UTRs) as well. SECReTE strength was found to influence the secretion of secretome proteins, as well as their localization to the ER. SECReTE is conserved in prokaryotes (B. subtilis) and eukaryotes (yeast and human), and is more abundant in the 3’UTRs of human mRNAs. SECReTE is bound by a large-scale RNA-binding protein (RBP) that is required for efficient secretion. We propose that SECReTE is a cis-regulatory element that plays a role in the targeting of mSMPs to the ER and enhances their translation and secretion.
The yellow fever mosquito Aedes aegypti is a primary vector of dengue, Zika, and chikungunya viruses, posing a significant public health risk. The study focuses on the origin of the A. aegypti mosquito population in California. The study genotyped 120 samples of A. aegypti from 12 sites in California and 16 sites from across the southern United States and northern Mexico. The genetic data suggest that at least two introductions of A. aegypti into California are responsible for the current populations within the state. The results have implications for mosquito surveillance and vector control activities in California and other regions.
Rhodococcus is a chemoheterotrophic genus of bacteria that can ferment organic carbon from soil and waste streams into oil. We used whole-genome sequence and comparative genomics to identify the genetic basis of the fatty acid and lipid metabolism in Rhodococcus opacus PD630. The fatty acid synthases (FAS) of Rhodococcus are multifunctional enzymes that catalyze de novo fatty acid biosynthesis from acetyl-CoA and malonyl-CoA, as well as the catabolism of fatty acids and other carbon sources. The fatty acid biosynthesis genes encoded in Rhodococcus were expanded relative to related species that do not store fatty acids. We identified 8632 genes in Rhodococcus opacus PD630, 261 of which encoded genes for the fatty acid cycle. A phylogenetic analysis of FAS type 1a and MAS-family type 1b proteins revealed that Rhodococcus shares the elaborate lipid biosynthesis systems of Mycobacterium. The FAS type 1a protein is highly related to the mycobacterial FAS type 1a protein. The Rhodococcus genome contains 261 candidate FAS type 1a genes and 261 candidate MAS-family type 1b genes. We identified the uncommon fatty acids pentadecanoic acid, heptadecanoic acid, and heptadecenoic acid as fatty acid products of the TAGs cycle. These fatty acids were purified from Rhodococcus grown on glucose and were shown to be straight-chain odd-carbon lipids. The ability of Rhodococcus to catabolize galactose and oligogalactosides was unique to Rhodococcus and R. jostii RHA1. Rhodococcus was able to catabolize a diverse array of carboxylic acids that corresponded to an expansion in the acyl-CoA ligase gene family that link organic acids with biosynthesis and catabolism. Our working model of the R. opacus PD630 metabolism began with genome sequence that allowed phylogenetic comparisons to be made with related species that have been studied in far greater molecular detail. Phenotypic information about catabolism in Rhodococcus provided a powerful multigenic test that guides the metabolic reconstruction towards completion through phenotype-directed pathway curation. Literature-based pathway curation united the reported biochemical reactions of M. phylei FAS type 1a protein with metabolic products that we purified and characterized during metabolic model refinement of R. opacus PD630. The improvements to our genetic model of R. opacus PD630 metabolism provides a template for further refinement with the integration of data from genetics, biochemistry, metabolomics, lipidomics, and transcriptomics that will be the focus of future work.
Prokaryotic genomes are highly variable in terms of oligonucleotide usage, and it is not clear whether this is due to randomness or bias. We therefore studied how different oligonucleotide sizes were used in prokaryotic genomes, and how they varied between coding and non-coding regions. The results show that oligonucleotides of different sizes carry different information potentials in coding and non-coding regions, and that the variance in oligonucleotide usage is less in coding regions than in non-coding regions. GC rich genomes are also found to be more biased than AT rich genomes. Our results also indicate that the GC content of non-coding regions within genomes varies more with mean genomic GC content than coding regions.
Targeted gene mutations are often used to study the role of the gene in a specific biological process. However, the effect of a targeted mutation on neighboring genes is not often considered. In this study, we evaluate the local effects of targeting on gene expression in 44 homozygous mutants for 44 targeted genes using RNA-seq. We find that local effects occur frequently around targeted genes and neighboring genes. The frequency of local effects is significantly higher in deletion (DEL) mutants than in gene trap (TRAP) mutants. Targeting efficiency is confirmed by RNA-seq for 97% of the DEL mutants, while for TRAP mutants, confirmation is possible but is not always possible. Local effects on gene expression may have a significant impact on phenotype. Therefore, it is important to consider the local effects of targeting when interpreting phenotypes of targeted mutations.
Dmrt1 is a master regulator of gonad development in vertebrates. We have identified a 11-nucleotide cis-regulatory motif in the 3′ UTR of dmrt1bY, the master sex determiner of medaka. This cis-regulatory motif, called D3U-box, confers stability to the dmrt1bY mRNA in the developing gonad, whereas in other tissues, the transcript is rapidly degraded. We have identified 2 RNA binding proteins, Ol-bsf and Ol-cug-bp1, that target and bind the D3U-box motif in vitro. These RNA binding proteins are ubiquitously expressed in all adult tissues, including gonads, and are highly expressed in germ cells. In vivo, overexpression of Ol-bsf and Ol-cug-bp1 in medaka embryos results in a significant increase in the abundance of dmrt1bY transcripts. In adult medaka, Ol-bsf is expressed in a subpopulation of germ cells and is preferentially expressed in germline stem cells and early dividing germ cells. In mice, celf1 is expressed in germ cells, and it was shown to be involved in the regulation of dmrt1 translation. Our results suggest that the D3U-box is a target for two antagonizing RNA binding proteins, Ol-bsf and Ol-cug-bp1, which modulate the abundance of dmrt1bY and other transcripts in germ cells.
Water is essential for the survival of mosquito eggs. However, the eggshell loses its permeability to water after the formation of the serosal cuticle, which increases the resistance to desiccation. The role of melanization, a process that produces the brown-black pigment melanin, in the resistance to desiccation in mosquito eggs is unknown. We investigated the effect of eggshell melanization on the resistance to desiccation in mosquito eggs. We compared the resistance to desiccation of Anopheles aquasalis, Anopheles gambiae and Aedes aegypti eggs that were either dark-brown or golden in color. The eggs were removed from water at different stages of embryogenesis and left to dry. Egg viability was assessed by observing the hatching of larvae. The resistance to desiccation is associated with the formation of the serosal cuticle and is higher in eggs that are darker. The darker eggs are also more resistant to desiccation. In mosquitoes, the resistance to desiccation is a trait that guarantees survival in hostile environments and enables population growth and spread to new habitats. Our results demonstrate that, in mosquitoes, the eggshell melanization level is directly associated with egg viability outside the water after serosal cuticle formation.
Helminth infections are associated with increased susceptibility to HIV-1 infection in humans, but the hypothesis has not been tested in vivo. We tested the hypothesis that acute schistosomiasis increases the risk of de novo HIV-1 acquisition in rhesus macaques. Schistosome-infected and control monkeys were exposed intrarectally to increasing doses of the recently described R5-tropic SHIV-C, SHIV-1157ipd3N4. The outcome of the study was to determine whether acute schistosomiasis increases the susceptibility of the host to de novo HIV-1 infection. Animals with schistosomiasis were more susceptible to HIV-1 infection than controls, with a higher viral load and more rapid destruction of memory T cells. These results provide the first direct evidence that helminth infection increases the risk of HIV-1 transmission.
Somitogenesis is a developmental process in which somites are formed through the sequential differentiation of anterior-to-posterior cells within the presomitic mesoderm. Although somitogenesis is highly reproducible, the effect of intrinsic noise on reproducibility remains unclear. We developed a computational model of ERK-mediated somitogenesis to investigate the effect of noise on developmental reproducibility. We found that even in the presence of intrinsic noise, the model successfully generated stepwise ERK activity shifts and reproducibly-sized somites. We also demonstrated that the segmentation clock, which regulates the ERK activity stepwise shift in the presence of the clock, enhances reproducibility against the noise. The clock-dependent mechanism of noise-resistant reproducibility in somitogenesis is novel.
The collective dynamics of enzymes are often examined by elastic network models (ENMs) using normal mode analysis (NMA). Here we show that the collective dynamics of different enzymes in the AAK family, which share a common monomeric fold, are selectively exploited by their oligomeric arrangements. The assembly of the monomers is found to be essential in defining the collective motions that are exploited by the oligomers for achieving their particular activities. In particular, the assembly geometry of the monomers gives rise to global motions uniquely defined for the particular oligomeric state, and not present in the monomeric state. In this context, we have identified the key structural elements that are important in the cooperative binding of arginine and the mechanism of cooperative inhibition of hexameric N-acetyl-L-glutamate kinase.
Dog rabies virus (RABV) is an important zoonotic pathogen that is currently present in many parts of Africa and Asia. Although the role of humans in the dispersal of RABV is not well understood, this virus has been the focus of much research in wildlife. We investigate the role of human activity in the spread of RABV in North Africa. We infer the evolutionary history of 287 RABV sequences (3080 nt) sampled from Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia and the Spanish territories from North Africa (Ceuta and Melilla) between 1986 and 2008. We use a Bayesian phylodynamic approach to estimate the rate of RABV gene flow among the sampled isolates. We find that the movement of RABV is largely driven by human activity, and that the virus can spread over very long distances in a relatively short time. Our results highlight the importance of human-mediated dispersal in the spread of RABV.
The 2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil is expected to attract large numbers of foreign visitors. The risk of dengue transmission during the World Cup is unknown. We used historical dengue surveillance data from 2001–2013 to estimate the risk of dengue during the World Cup. We found that this risk was low but varying across locations. We used historical dengue surveillance data to estimate the risk of symptomatic dengue infection during the World Cup. This risk was estimated separately for game cities visited by tourists and basecamp cities where country teams will reside. We found that the risk of dengue transmission among tourists and teams was low. The estimated number of expected cases ranged from 26 to 53 cases among 600,000 tourists. We also estimated the number of cases among teams of 23 players staying at their basecamps for the full duration of the Word Cup. We estimate that no dengue cases will be expected among teams. The risk of dengue transmission during the World Cup is low but varies across locations. We estimate that 26 to 53 symptomatic cases of dengue will occur among 600,000 tourists. We estimate that 0–2 cases of dengue will occur among teams.
Brown adipocytes are thermogenic fat cells that are crucial for the regulation of energy homeostasis and body weight. To understand the molecular mechanisms that control the lineage commitment and differentiation of brown adipocytes, we performed a comprehensive profiling of the transcriptome and epigenome during the process of murine brown adipogenesis. We identified a number of key regulators that are novel for this process, including the kinase PIM1, the homeobox transcription factor SIX1, the transcription factor RREB1, and the transcription factor SOX13. We also identified a number of potential regulators that have been previously implicated in the development of brown adipocytes, including the transcription factor PPARγ. Furthermore, we identified a number of novel super-enhancers that are associated with the expression of key brown adipocyte markers and are essential for the commitment to the brown lineage. Finally, we mapped the epigenomic and transcriptomic landscapes at key developmental stages during brown adipogenesis and found that the pre-deposition of H3K4me1 at the early stages of brown adipogenesis is essential for poising the expression of brown specific genes for later expression.
Paracoccidioidomycosis (PCM) is a systemic fungal infection endemic in South America, and is the third cause of death from chronic infections in Brazil. Serological diagnosis is widely used for the diagnosis and follow up of patients with PCM. However, the serological diagnosis is not routinely checked, in part due to the lack of external standards. Six reference centers for the diagnosis and follow up of PCM in Brazil that carry out routine serological diagnosis participated in this study. The results show a high rate of discordance among the laboratories, strong enough to result in conflicting information regarding the patient's treatment, and that renewed efforts should be promoted to improve standardization of the serological diagnosis of PCM.
Hookworm-related cutaneous larva migrans (CLM) is a parasitic skin disease caused by the migration of animal hookworm larvae in the epidermis. The infection occurs when third-stage larvae come into contact with human skin and penetrate into the epidermis. The main symptom is intense pruritus, which intensifies at night. The itching leads to sleep disturbance and day somnolence. Scratching may cause extensive excoriations and subsequent bacterial superinfection of the lesions, typically by Streptococcus pyogenes or Staphylococcus aureus. The skin disease has a considerable impact on the quality of life of affected individuals. We investigated the skin disease-associated life quality impairment in patients with CLM in a semi-quantitative manner using the Dermatology Life Quality Index (mDLQI). The study was carried out in Manaus, the capital of Amazonas State, North Brazil, from October 2008 to February 2009. Patients were actively recruited in resource-poor neighbourhoods. Ninety-one patients were included in the study, 63 of them were male and 28 female. The median age was 10 years (IQR 7-12, range 5–44 years). The median mDLQI score was 5 (IQR 3-8). The majority of the patients (51.6%) showed a moderate life quality impairment. At baseline, the median mDLQI score was 5 (IQR 3-8). Pruritus, sleep disturbance, feeling of shame and the need to dress differently were the most frequent restrictions. Significant differences in perceived restrictions between adult and child patients existed for problems faced at work/school and impairment in social relationships. The degree of skin disease-associated life quality impairment correlated strongly with the severity of the infection and the number of affected body areas. A single dose of ivermectin caused a complete resolution of the lesions within one month and restored skin disease-associated life quality to the normal level. CLM impairs the physical and mental wellbeing as well as social interaction of patients in a setting where skin disease-associated life quality is generally low. A single dose of ivermectin caused a complete resolution of the lesions within one month and restored skin disease-associated life quality to the normal level.
Zoonotic Visceral Leishmaniasis (ZVL) is a neglected tropical disease that is endemic in the Americas. In Brazil, ZVL is caused by Leishmania infantum and is transmitted by the sand fly Lu. longipalpis. The domestic dog constitutes the main reservoir. In this study, we evaluated the population parameters of Lu. longipalpis in a highly endemic area of VL in Brazil. The population size, daily survival rate, and duration of the gonotrophic cycle were evaluated using a mark-recapture method. The population size of Lu. longipalpis was estimated at 900 to 4,857 females and 2,882 to 9,543 males. The daily survival rate ranged from 0.79 to 0.89. The duration of the gonotrophic cycle was estimated to be five days. Our findings provide the first published information on the population parameters of Lu. longipalpis and support the hypothesis of loyalty behavior and the presence of all the necessary conditions for the establishment and maintenance of the vector population.
Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) is a major cause of diarrheal in children. EPEC colonizes the intestinal epithelium by forming typical attaching and effacing (AE) lesions. In these lesions, EPEC injects effector proteins into host cells, which subvert host cell functions, leading to inflammation and colonization. The effector proteins are encoded by a type three secretion system (TTSS), which is essential for EPEC colonization. In this study we show that EPEC mutants deleted of the three anti-inflammatory effector genes (nleB, nleC, nleE) are unable to suppress NF-κB signaling in host cells, whereas EPEC mutants lacking the TTSS are unable to activate NF-κB. TTSS activity is not required for NF-κB activation, as the host cell can detect active TTSS. TTSS activity is associated with the formation of a pore in the host cell membrane, which is not required for NF-κB activation. NF-κB activation is inhibited by the EPEC effector NleE and by the Salmonella effector OspI. Our results suggest that TTSS-sensing is one of the mechanisms by which epithelial cells detect pathogenic bacteria and prevent colonization by commensal bacteria.
The RNA recognition motif (RRM) of the Rbfox protein is responsible for protein-RNA interactions. Here we use molecular dynamics simulations to predict the structural determinants of the Rbfox*•pre-miR21 complex. We perform simulations of the Rbfox*•pre-miR20b complex and compare them with the available NMR data. We predict the structural determinants of the Rbfox*•pre-miR21 complex and propose a new mutant (S151T Rbfox*) with improved specificity for the target RNA sequence.
Schistosomes are intravascular parasites that manipulate the host’s hemostatic system to survive and spread in the host. To this end, they produce a range of bioactive molecules that are secreted in the host blood and/or released from the parasite surface. We report the first biochemical and functional characterization of Schistosoma mansoni serine protease 2 (SmSP2), a trypsin-like protease that is the most abundantly expressed enzyme in the blood-dwelling stages of this parasite. SmSP2 is a multi-domain serine protease with a unique insertion-358 in the catalytic domain. The enzyme cleaves a range of physiologically relevant host proteins: it processes fibronectin, activates plasminogen and tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), and releases the vasodilatory peptide bradykinin from its precursor high molecular weight kininogen (HMWK). SmSP2 is incapable of cleaving macromolecular substrates such as hemoglobin, serum albumin or immunoglobulin G. We propose that SmSP2 is a novel anti-hemostatic factor that is involved in parasite survival and host manipulation.
γδ T cells have been implicated in the immune response to CMV but their role in protection has not been firmly established and their dependency on other lymphocytes has not been addressed. Here, we show that γδ T cells are as competent as αβ T cells to protect mice from CMV-induced death. We also show that γδ T cells are sufficient to control MCMV spread in the absence of αβ T cells, and that they are sufficient to protect mice from CMV-induced death in the absence of B and NK cells. In addition, we show that γδ T cells are sufficient to protect mice from CMV-induced death in the absence of αβ T cells. Finally, we show that γδ T cells are sufficient to protect mice from CMV-induced death in the absence of B and NK cells.
Plasmodium parasites are the causative agents of malaria. The inhibitor of cysteine proteases (ICP) is a cysteine protease inhibitor that is expressed in all Plasmodium species. ICPs are crucial for parasite development and host cell invasion. Here, we investigated the role of the ICP in Plasmodium berghei and show that it is essential for invasion of salivary glands and hepatocytes. ICP deficiency resulted in a severe attenuation of blood stage development and invasion of hepatocytes. Importantly, the phenotype of PbICP-deficient parasites was completely reversed by expression of a PbICP-GFP fusion protein. The inhibitor was shown to be involved in regulation of cysteine proteases involved in gliding motility, egress, and invasion.
The histone H2A.Z is a histone variant that is essential for proper embryonic development in mammals. The H2A.Z variant is incorporated at a subset of promoters that are poised for activation and is associated with specialized chromatin states. Here, we report that disruption of the divergent acidic patch residues in the H2A.Z variant leads to a decrease in H2A.Z occupancy at target genes during embryonic stem cell differentiation. We also find that H2A.ZAP3 is less stably associated with chromatin compared to H2A.Z and that it is less accessible to a transcriptional inhibitor. These data suggest that the divergent acidic patch domain is a critical determinant of H2A.Z dynamics and that it is necessary for proper regulation of gene expression during lineage commitment.
Lineage tracing is a powerful tool for investigating stem cell dynamics. The purpose of this study was to validate our lineage tracing method in the mouse colon. The study focused on the crypts, which are the basic units of the intestinal epithelium. The lineage tracing method used was based on the fact that somatic mutations accumulate in microsatellites during cell division. The method was applied to cells and crypts isolated from young and old mice. Our results confirm the existence of monoclonal conversion in crypt stem cells, and that they do not incorporate an immortal strand. We also found that randomly sampled crypts are clustered separately from other cell types. We further showed that the colon crypts are clustered separately from bone marrow cells and other cell types. Our results indicate that the colon is constituted by a few distinct progenitors. Our method was also used to address open questions regarding the relationship between the colon and other cell types. We found that colon crypts are clustered separately from hematopoietic stem cells from the bone marrow. Our study provides evidence for the reliability of lineage tracing in stem cell dynamics.
Antiretroviral therapy (ART) is a lifesaving treatment that suppresses HIV viral loads in patients. However, HIV persists in some patients despite long-term ART. Understanding the impact of ART on HIV RNA levels in different organs is essential for the development of strategies to eradicate infectious HIV from patients. In this study, we used a humanized mouse model of HIV infection and ART to characterize the impact of ART on HIV RNA levels in the body. We found that ART reduced HIV RNA levels in multiple organs, but did not eliminate them. We then evaluated the efficacy of a humanized HIV-specific immunotoxin (3B3-PE38) on HIV persisting cells in BLT mice. The immunotoxin significantly reduced the number of HIV-infected cells in BLT mice. The results of this study demonstrate the potential of targeted cytotoxic therapies to eliminate HIV-infected cells that persist despite long-term ART.
The sensitivity and specificity of two commercial NS1-based rapid diagnostic tests (Platelia NS1 ELISA and NS1 lateral flow rapid test [LFRT]) for dengue diagnosis in Vietnamese patients were compared. A total of 138 patients were enrolled in the study and were diagnosed with dengue (60 of whom were confirmed by reference algorithm). The NS1 Platelia ELISA was more sensitive than the NS1-LFRT in confirmed dengue cases (83% versus 73%, P = 0.047). The sensitivity of both assays was influenced by the patient's duration of illness prior to study entry (P = 0.003). NS1 detection was significantly reduced in DENV-2 infected patients (55%) relative to DENV-1 (98%; P<0.001) or DENV-3 (96%; P = 0.004) infected patients in both assays. The NS1-LFRT assay was modestly less sensitive than the Platelia NS1 ELISA assay in confirmed dengue cases (73% versus 83%). NS1 detection was significantly reduced in DENV-2 infected patients (55%) relative to DENV-1 (98%; P<0.001) or DENV-3 (96%; P = 0.004) infected patients in both assays. The NS1-LFRT assay was modestly less sensitive than the Platelia NS1 ELISA assay in confirmed dengue cases (73% versus 83%).
Rabies is a major public health problem in Sub Saharan Africa (SSA) and is the main cause of human deaths due to rabies. Most human rabies deaths are caused by contact with rabies infected dogs. In order to eliminate rabies amongst humans and dogs, mass dog vaccination campaigns are the single most effective strategy. In SSA, vaccination campaigns are often carried out using static point (SP) vaccination stations. SP vaccination campaigns are often suboptimal due to low attendance at SPs. We aimed to investigate the barriers to attendance at SPs in Blantyre, Malawi using a multivariable logistic regression and a household questionnaire. We found that distance from SP was a crucial predictor of attendance. We also found that socio-economic status influenced attendance to SP vaccinations. Puppies, dogs from areas with higher proportions of people living in poverty, and dogs that were not allowed to roam were less likely to be brought to SPs. In order to achieve greater coverage at SP this problem cannot be ignored. Promotional campaigns and rabies education work need to include information on how to safely handle and walk dogs. Our findings suggest that future vaccination campaigns should increase efforts on improving positioning of SPs so that they become more accessible. We have also shown that there is a clear need to provide timely and accurate information about upcoming campaigns, emphasing the importance of puppies being vaccinated and identifying ways to improve dog handling.
The tsetse fly is the primary vector of African trypanosomes that cause human and animal diseases. The parasites invade the salivary glands (SG) of the tsetse fly to mature into mammalian infective forms. The molecular aspects of the tsetse-trypanosome interactions are not well understood. Here, we used RNA-seq to compare the transcriptomes of uninfected and parasite-infected SGs from the tsetse fly Glossina morsitans. We identified 263 contigs that are preferentially expressed in the SG, and 75 contigs that are preferentially expressed in the SG infected with the parasite. The transcriptome analysis revealed that parasite infection causes a drastic reduction in levels of the major saliva proteins, including secreted proteins with anti-hemostatic functions. In addition, we identified several genes that are differentially expressed in the salivary gland and blood stages of the parasite. Our findings provide a global insight into the molecular aspects of the tsetse-trypanosome interactions and provide a foundation for future studies on the molecular mechanisms of parasite-host interactions in the SG.
The aim of this study was to identify novel antileishmanial compounds from soil bacteria. Streptomyces sp. ICBG292 and Streptomyces puniceus ICBG378 were isolated from the exoskeleton of worker ants of the species Atta sexdens and Cyphomyrmex, respectively. Bioassay-guided fractionation of extracts of Streptomyces sp. ICBG292 and Streptomyces puniceus ICBG378 led to the isolation of three antileishmanial compounds: Mer-A2026B (1), piericidin-A1 (2), and nigericin (3), produced by Streptomyces sp. ICBG292; and dinactin (4), produced by Streptomyces puniceus ICBG378. Compound 3 presented high activity against intracellular amastigotes of Leishmania donovani, while compounds 1 and 4 were highly active against promastigotes of L. donovani. Compound 3 had a selectivity index of 656.11. These compounds were identified through bioassay-guided fractionation of extracts of Streptomyces sp. ICBG292 and Streptomyces puniceus ICBG378.
The population genetics of Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense, the parasite that causes sleeping sickness in humans and livestock in East and Southern Africa, has been controversial due to the apparent lack of genetic diversity in the field. Here we show that T. b. rhodesiense populations in East Africa are not strictly clonal, but are instead dynamic and undergo genetic exchange. Using seven microsatellite loci we examined three distinct foci of human disease in East Africa and one in Malawi. The T. b. rhodesiense population from Malawi showed greater genetic diversity and evidence for frequent genetic exchange, while the populations from Uganda were genetically very closely related. Our findings suggest that the population genetics of T. b. rhodesiense is more complex than previously described, with implications for the spread of the single copy T. b. rhodesiense gene that allows human infectivity and the epidemiology of the human disease.
The brain processes information through the synchronized activity of neurons. The spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) learning rule has been shown to play a role in this process. In particular, STDP can selectively strengthen connections that have a specific delay between the neurons. This delay can be either the axonal delay, the dendritic delay, or a combination of both. We investigate how STDP can selectively strengthen connections with a specific axonal and dendritic delay when the network is driven by oscillatory inputs. We show that the network becomes selectively responsive to the frequency of the oscillations that it received during learning. We also show that this selective response is not due to the oscillations in the inputs but to the correlation between the inputs. We discuss how the delay selection mechanism may be relevant to the formation of neuronal ensembles and the processing of temporal information in the brain.
Leishmania infantum is the main agent of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in humans and dogs. In endemic areas, the disease is transmitted by phlebotomine sand flies, and control of the sand fly vector is the most effective way to prevent human infection. The use of systemic insecticides in dogs as a public health intervention is an alternative to the mass use of insecticide-impregnated dog collars. Mathematical models have been used to evaluate the effect of community-wide use of systemic insecticides in dogs on human incidence of L. infantum infection. In this study, we use a deterministic mathematical model to evaluate the efficacy of community-wide use of systemic insecticides in dogs as a strategy to reduce the number of human infections with L. infantum causing VL cases in an endemic area. We simulated different intervention scenarios and calculated the number of infected dogs in the population for each scenario, and then estimated the number of new human infections arising from transmission from the infected dogs. The model predicts that significant reductions in human incidence of infection can be achieved by community-wide use of systemic insecticides in dogs. The model allows estimating the minimum requirements of the systemic insecticide (efficacy and duration) and the intervention (dog treatment coverage) to significantly reduce L. infantum infections in humans.
The invasion of erythrocytes by Plasmodium falciparum merozoites is critical for blood-stage parasite growth and survival. Apical organelles, called micronemes and rhoptries, are released during host cell invasion. Here, we have investigated the external signals that trigger the sequential release of microneme and rhoptry proteins during erythrocyte invasion. The rise in intracellular calcium levels is a key signal that triggers the release of microneme proteins such as the 175 kDa erythrocyte binding antigen (EBA175) and apical membrane antigen-1 (AMA1) to the merozoite surface. Following release to the merozoite surface, engagement of EBA175 with its receptor, glycophorin A (glyA), restores basal cytosolic calcium levels and triggers the release of rhoptry proteins such as CLAG3.1 and PfRH2b. These observations provide a starting point for the analysis of signaling pathways involved in regulated secretion of apical organelles during invasion. A clear understanding of these pathways may provide novel targets for intervention since inhibition of apical organelle release will block invasion and limit blood-stage parasite multiplication.
In solid tumors, the lack of a transvascular pressure gradient and the presence of a high interstitial fluid pressure (IFP) are two phenomena that can impact drug delivery in the tumor microenvironment. The main barrier to drug delivery is the elevated IFP. Normalization of vasculature in the tumor microenvironment can provide a route for drug delivery. In this study, we investigate the impact of microenvironmental conditions and drug scheduling on the normalization benefit. We use a mathematical model to simulate the impact of various conditions on normalization benefit. We show that normalization can enhance drug delivery and treatment efficacy. The results indicate that the application of antiangiogenic agents and cytotoxic nanoparticles through heterogeneous vasculature can overcome the barriers to drug delivery in the tumor microenvironment.
HIV-1 disseminates to CD4+ T cells via myeloid dendritic cells (DCs), but the mechanism of HIV-1 capture and transfer by DCs remains unclear. In this report, we demonstrate that myeloid DCs express the sialic acid binding immunoglobulin-like lectin, CD169, that mediates HIV-1 capture and trans infection in a type I interferon-dependent manner. HIV-1 particles incorporate terminal α2,3-linked ganglioside, GM3, in their lipid bilayer and this GSL-dependent mechanism of HIV-1 capture by DCs is dependent on CD169 expression on DCs. CD169+ DCs also efficiently transfer HIV-1 particles to autologous CD4+ T cells in a GSL-dependent manner. Furthermore, we demonstrate that CD169+ DCs can also capture and transfer murine retrovirus, MLV, in a GM3-dependent manner. Thus, incorporation of GSLs in the HIV-1 particle membrane is a unique example of molecular mimicry by HIV-1 of “self” recognition pathways that aid virus dissemination and might be the HIV-1 evasion strategy from DC intrinsic virus restriction factors.
Proteoglycans (PGs) play critical roles in regulating the timing of chondrocyte maturation and skeletal development. We have identified mutations in two genes involved in PG synthesis in zebrafish that cause increased perichondral bone and premature chondrocyte maturation. These mutations occur in Fam20b and Xylt1, which are paralogs of human genes involved in chondrocyte PG synthesis. Mutants with Fam20b and Xylt1 mutations display premature chondrocyte maturation and premature perichondrial bone formation. In Fam20b mutants, chondrocytes initiate premature maturation and produce PGs defectively, whereas in Xylt1 mutants, chondrocytes produce PGs normally but with altered glycosylation. These results demonstrate that Fam20b and Xylt1 are required for normal chondrocyte maturation and perichondrial bone formation. Our findings provide insight into the role of PGs in regulating the timing of skeletal development.
Severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome (SFTS) is a newly recognized emerging infectious disease caused by SFTS virus (SFTSV). SFTSV is a tick-borne virus, and its natural reservoir and transmission routes are not yet fully understood. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive survey to elucidate the viral ecology of SFTSV in ticks and small wild animals in an SFTS endemic area in Jiangsu province. We collected 9,984 ticks (1,518 larvae, 5,336 nymphs, 1,412 male adults, and 1,718 female adults) and 1,283 small wild animals (6 species of rodents, 1 shrew, 2 wild birds, and 1 hedgehog) during 2013 and 2014, and detected SFTSV-RNA in both feeding and questing Haemaphysalis longicornis and Haemaphysalis flava ticks. Viral RNA was also identified in larvae of H. longicornis collected directly from the environment prior to a first blood meal, indicating that SFTSV could be vertically transmitted in nature. We also detected SFTSV-RNA in Erinaceus europaeus and Sorex araneus, and viral antibodies in two migratory bird species, Anser cygnoides and Streptopelia chinensis. Infection of SFTSV in the wild bird species suggests that SFTSV could be transmitted long distances by them, which is also in agreement with a phylogenetic analysis reported earlier. Our findings provide insight into viral ecology of SFTSV, a newly identified phlebovirus in ticks and ticks feeding on small wild mammals and birds in an SFTS endemic area.
Host-virus interactions are fundamental to understanding the ecology and evolution of microbial communities. Marine viruses are recognized as major ecological and evolutionary drivers and have immense impact on the community structure and the flow of nutrients through marine microbial food webs. The cosmopolitan coccolithophore Emiliania huxleyi (Prymnesiophyceae, Haptophyta) is a widespread unicellular eukaryotic alga, responsible for large oceanic blooms. E. huxleyi is also a key producer of dimethyl sulfide [9], a bioactive gas with a significant climate-regulating role that seemingly enhances cloud formation [10]. Therefore, the fate of these blooms may have a critical impact on carbon and sulfur biogeochemical cycles. E. huxleyi spring blooms are frequently terminated as a consequence of infection by a specific large dsDNA virus (E. huxleyi virus, EhV) [11, 12]. The availability of genomic and transcriptomic data and a suite of host isolates with a range of susceptibilities to various EhV strains, makes the E. huxleyi-EhV a trackable host-pathogen model system with important ecological significance. Here, we used a novel microfluidic setup to measure single-cell gene expression during E. huxleyi infection by EhV. We provide strong evidence for heterogeneity within the population and discern between cells at different infection states based on their viral gene expression signatures. We unravel an unrecognized phase of early host response that preceded viral gene expression within infected cells. We suggest that examining host and virus gene expression profiles at the single cell resolution allows to infer the temporal dynamic of the infection process, thereby it serves as an attractive approach to decipher the molecular mechanism underlying host-virus interaction.
The network-induced functional changes in breast cancer have not been characterized. Here, we leverage a comprehensive PIN to infer a sample-specific network and assign a sample-specific function to each gene. We then assess for functional changes in breast cancer relative to normal tissue and find that many genes gain or lose functions in cancer, which are not captured by traditional approaches based on differential expression alone. We show that the detected functional changes are associated with patient survival and subtypes of breast cancer. Our findings suggest that the network-induced changes in a gene’s function may play a significant role in breast cancer and may provide a new approach to understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying breast cancer.
Influenza A viruses (IAV) are known to cause seasonal outbreaks and pandemics in humans and other domestic animals. However, the majority of IAV diversity is found in wild waterfowl where IAV subtypes co-circulate and change over time. Understanding how host immunity influences the emergence and spread of new subtypes is critical to understanding the maintenance of IAV diversity in wild bird populations. Here, we experimentally mimicked re-exposures to IAV in mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) and evaluated the impact on viral shedding and immune responses. We observed partial protection against re-infection with heterologous subtypes and partial protection against heterologous re-challenges. The outcome of heterologous re-challenges varied according to the phylogenetic relatedness between the viruses used. The study demonstrates that the host population immunity directed at multiple antigens influences the prevalence, diversity and evolution of IAV in avian populations where the vast subtype diversity is maintained.
Conjugation is the process by which a mobile genetic element is transferred from a donor cell to a recipient cell. In Gram-positive bacteria, conjugation is typically studied using genetic and biochemical approaches. Here, we report on the regulation of conjugation of the 65 kb B. subtilis plasmid pLS20. The main regulator of conjugation is a transcriptional repressor protein, RcoLS20, encoded by the gene 27c. The activity of RcoLS20 is inhibited by a signaling peptide encoded by gene 25, named Phr*LS20. The activity of RcoLS20 is also relieved by an anti-repressor protein, RapLS20. Phr*LS20 inhibits RapLS20-mediated de-repression of the conjugation genes. We show that Phr*LS20 is a quorum sensing molecule that can be produced by cells in liquid medium, and that it can inhibit conjugation at all growth phases. RapLS20 is the anti-repressor that activates conjugation by counteracting the inhibitory effect of Phr*LS20 on RcoLS20. These results demonstrate a novel regulatory mechanism that is involved in plasmid conjugation in Gram-positive bacteria.
The mosquito Aedes aegypti is the primary vector of dengue virus (DENV). The early time periods following infection with DENV in mosquitoes are critical for determining the outcome of infection. We performed a genome-wide transcriptome analysis in A. aegypti susceptible and refractory strains at two early time points following DENV infection to identify genes that are coordinately expressed in response to DENV infection. The susceptible response module (SRM) was represented by genes related to energy metabolism, DNA replication, cytochrome P450 and DDT (1,1,1-Trichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl) ethane) degradation, cell growth and death, and Wnt, MAPK, mTOR, and JAK-STAT pathways. The refractory response module (RRM) was represented by genes related to cell growth and death, energy metabolism, and DNA replication. The common core response module (CRM) was represented by genes related to the Wnt, MAPK, mTOR, and JAK-STAT pathways. The study suggests that gene networks are important for the early stages of DENV infection in mosquitoes.
Loiasis is a filarial infection endemic in the rainforest areas of West and Central Africa. The infection is associated with Chrysops silacea and C. dimidiata, the vectors of L. loa. The common clinical signs of loiasis are the subconjunctival migration of the adult worm (reported for the first time by Mongin) and the presence of pruritus, oedema, and arthralgia. Loiasis can also be rarely associated with renal, cardiac, neurologic or chorioretinal complications. In some regions, it has been noted that loiasis is the second or third most common reason of medical consultation, after malaria and pulmonary diseases. In areas where onchocerciasis and loiasis are co-endemic, the impact of annual ivermectin treatment on the transmission of loiasis has not been evaluated. The objective of this study was to assess the impact of annual community directed treatment with ivermectin on the parasitological indicators of loiasis. Three Community Directed Treatment with Ivermectin (CDTI) project sites and a non-CDTI district were selected for this cross-sectional study. Three thousand six hundred and eighty-four individuals were screened in the study. In the East, Northwest and Southwest CDTI project sites, the prevalence of L. loa microfilariae (mf) was 1.2%, 2.3% and 0.7% respectively, while in the non-CDTI district it was 6.2%. The proportion of individuals with high mf load (8,001–30,000 mf/ml) was reduced from 7.7% to 1.2%, 3.3% to 0.6% and 1.1% in the East, Northwest and Southwest respectively. The proportion of individuals with very high mf load (>30,000 mf/ml) was reduced from 3.3% to 0.2%, 0.4% to 0.1% and 0.1% in the East, Northwest and Southwest respectively. The proportion of children with high mf load was reduced from 1.1% to 0% in the East CDTI project site. The results indicate that annual ivermectin treatment for 10 years reduces the prevalence and intensity of L. loa infection. The proportion of individuals with high and very high mf load was significantly reduced in the Northwest and East CDTI project sites. The proportion of individuals with very high mf load was significantly reduced in the Northwest and East CDTI project sites. The proportion of children with high and very high mf load was significantly reduced in the East CDTI project site. The study has demonstrated that the adherence to ivermectin treatment is a key determinant for its full impact on L. loa parasitological indicators.
The fundamental processes of replication and transcription are coordinated to avoid conflicts. In bacteria, replication and transcription are initiated at the same template, and their co-orientation is essential for proper cellular function and survival. However, the precise evolutionary forces driving the co-orientation bias of replication and transcription are not understood. We engineered Bacillus subtilis strains with inversions of the rRNA operons and/or the origin of replication to examine the consequences of disrupting the co-orientation bias. We found that transcriptional bias over an extended region of the genome results in a small growth defect in poor medium, but is sufficient to confer a strong competitive disadvantage in rich medium. In contrast, inversion of the rRNA operons strongly disrupts replication, induces the DNA damage response, and leads to cell death. We propose that preserving genome integrity has contributed to the evolution of co-orientation bias and its further enrichment in highly-expressed and essential genes.
Schistosomiasis is the most important helminthic disease in terms of morbidity and mortality. In this report, we demonstrate that human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) can integrate into the genome of the blood fluke Schistosoma mansoni. The findings establish that HIV-1 can integrate into the genome of an invertebrate and that the virus can exploit mechanisms that evolved for parasitism of primates by lentiviruses. The findings have implications for the development of new treatments and vaccines.
Leptospirosis is a re-emerging disease of global importance. The main reservoir host of Leptospira spp. is the rat. Leptospires are transmitted to mammalian hosts through contact with water and soil contaminated with the urine of infected rodents. Leptospires are thought to persist within mammalian hosts through modification of the outer membrane protein LipL32, a major leptospiral lipoprotein. Here, we report the presence of post-translational modifications (PTMs) on LipL32 from rat urine-isolated Leptospira interrogans serovar Copenhageni. Four PTMs occurred in regions of LipL32 previously identified as B cell epitopes, and one PTM decreased epitope recognition by human leptospirosis serum. This study provides the first in vivo proteomic investigation of post-translational modifications of a major leptospiral lipoprotein and provides insight into the potential functional consequences of such modifications.
Generation of long-lived pathogen-specific effector memory CD8 T cells is thought to be a key component of the immune response to new infections. However, the factors that influence the size and longevity of pre-existing memory populations and the capacity of the host’s memory compartment to accommodate multiple epitopes are not fully understood. To address this, we investigated the impact of co-infection with MCMV and Ad-lacZ on the size of pre-existing memory and the capacity of the host’s memory compartment to accommodate multiple epitopes. We show that co-infection does not reduce the size of pre-existing memory, and that the presence of large inflating populations does not impact upon the size of newly developing inflating populations. However, acute MCMV infection can deplete pre-existing memory cells, which do not recover in the long term. The depleted cells may be killed by the innate immune system, as indicated by the upregulation of the death receptor Fas. Thus, the order in which pathogens are encountered during the lifetime of the host can have a profound impact on long-term CD8 T cell effector memory immune responses.
The stag beetle Cyclommatus metallifer has large mandibles that are sexually dimorphic, with males having larger mandibles than females. We show that the doublesex gene (Cmdsx) is required for normal mandible growth in stag beetles, and that its knockdown leads to intersex phenotypes and alters the interaction between the sex determination and juvenile hormone signaling pathways. We suggest that the default developmental state of mandibles in both sexes is a moderate sensitivity to juvenile hormone, and that the sex-specific growth of mandibles in stag beetles is regulated by a complex interaction between the sex determination and juvenile hormone signaling pathways. Our findings provide new insights into the developmental mechanisms of the stag beetle, shedding light on how sex-specific traits are regulated in this species.
Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is characterised by hyperglycemia and impaired insulin secretion. The mechanisms underlying β-cell dysfunction in T2D are not fully understood. We developed a genome-wide approach to identify genes that cause β-cell dysfunction in T2D. This approach used four mouse models of Down syndrome (DS) as a genetic model for T2D. We screened 4,920 genes that were differentially expressed in DS mouse islets and identified a single lead candidate, Regulator of calcineurin 1 (RCAN1). RCAN1 expression was increased in human T2D islets and correlated with increased glucose tolerance and body weight. RCAN1 overexpression in mice impaired glucose-stimulated insulin secretion and caused mitochondrial dysfunction and reduced ATP levels. In vitro, RCAN1 overexpression inhibited glucose-stimulated insulin secretion, and reduced ATP production in β-cells. This was caused by reduced ANT function, increased mitochondrial Ca2+ entry, increased oxidative stress and hyperpolarization of the mitochondrial membrane. Our data provide a genetic mechanism for β-cell dysfunction in T2D and suggest that mitochondrial dysfunction may be an important factor in the pathogenesis of T2D.
Rabies virus (RABV) is the causative agent of rabies, a zoonotic disease that affects mammals and birds. The virus is transmitted to humans through bites of infected animals. Despite the high fatality rate of rabies, no standardized classification of RABV has been established. To address this issue, we developed a novel non-hierarchical clustering method, affinity propagation (AP), in combination with phylogenetic analyses to cluster RABV full-genome sequences. The results of AP clustering were compared with previously published phylogenetic studies. The AP clustering algorithm identified four clusters (New World, Arctic/Arctic-like, Cosmopolitan, and Asian) and was able to resolve previously described clusters as well as newly identified clusters. The results of the combined phylogenetic and clustering approach revealed that AP is a robust method for sub-species classification of RABV.
Myelination is the process by which axons are surrounded by a fatty insulating sheath. In the nervous system, myelination is performed by two types of cells: oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system (CNS) and Schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). Both types of cells produce myelin, but the mechanisms of myelin gene regulation are poorly understood. Here, we show that the transcription factor Sox10 is essential for myelination in oligodendrocytes and is required for the activation of the myelin-specific transcription factor Myrf. In oligodendrocytes, Sox10 is also required for the activation of Myrf. Myrf is induced by Sox10 in oligodendrocytes and is essential for myelin gene expression. It is a direct target of Sox10 and is bound to the intronic enhancer region 9 (ECR9) of the Myrf gene. The combination of Sox10 and Myrf is sufficient to activate the expression of myelin genes in oligodendrocytes. In contrast, the activation of myelin genes in Schwann cells is mediated by Sox10 and Krox20, whereas the Sox10-Myrf circuit is not present in Schwann cells. The Sox10-Myrf circuit is thus a critical step in the myelination program in oligodendrocytes, but its mode of action differs from the one in Schwann cells.
Dendritic trees are the tree-like projections that extend from neuronal cell bodies. They collect inputs from other neurons and are responsible for their connectivity. Here, we show that the branching statistics of dendritic trees are related to the local statistics of the input organization in the nervous tissue. Specifically, we introduce a new branching statistic for dendrites, the regularity index R, which is based on the average nearest neighbor (NN) distance between branch, termination or input points of a given dendritic tree, capturing the regularity of their respective distributions. We then compare the input organization in real dendritic trees with the respective branching statistics. We find that input distributions and dendritic morphology are related, and that the branching statistics commonly used to describe dendritic morphology are not sufficient to characterize the relationship between the two. We also show that R is weakly correlated with other branching statistics and that it is extendable in several ways. Overall, we show that R is a useful new statistic for the classification of dendritic trees.
Zinc (Zn) is essential for host immune function, yet its role in host control of bacterial infections is unclear. Here, we demonstrate that host Zn levels directly impact the outcome of S. pneumoniae infection in mice. We show that dietary Zn restriction leads to increased bacterial burden and reduced host survival time. Further, Zn abundance is spatially and temporally complex with the emergence of Zn-enriched regions in the lungs, which co-localise with S. pneumoniae. Transcriptional analyses of S. pneumoniae reveal that the pathogen is directly exposed to these Zn-enriched regions, and that Zn homeostasis is compromised in a Zn-dependent manner. Further, mutant analyses of S. pneumoniae reveal that bacterial metal ion homeostasis is compromised by Zn-intoxication, which in turn influences the efficacy of phagocytic cell killing. This study reveals the link between dietary Zn intake and host resistance to bacterial pneumonia, highlighting the potential implications of this finding for the prevention and treatment of bacterial infections in zinc deficient individuals.
The promoter region is a fundamental component of gene regulation, serving as the initial site of transcriptional machinery binding and assembly. Promoter-proximal divergent transcription, where divergent transcription initiates at the upstream antisense transcription start site (uaTSS), is a common feature of mammalian promoters. Here, we investigate antisense transcription initiating within 2 kb of uaTSSs (daTSSs). daTSSs coincide with the downstream edge of promoter-associated chromatin features, including histone marks and transcription factor binding sites. daTSSs also coincide with the binding of chromatin remodeling complexes and transcription factors. daTSSs are not associated with lowly expressed genes, and downstream antisense transcription is not associated with changes in gene expression. We find that daTSSs coincide with the downstream edge of promoter-associated features, including histone marks and transcription factor binding sites. daTSSs also coincide with the binding of chromatin remodeling complexes and transcription factors. These results suggest that downstream antisense transcription may contribute to the establishment of promoter-specific chromatin features and may participate in the modulation of gene expression.
Dengue is the most important arthropod-borne viral disease in terms of morbidity and mortality worldwide. In Brazil, dengue is an important public health problem and since its introduction in 1986, a total of 5,944,270 cases were reported, including 21,596 dengue hemorrhagic fever and 874 fatal cases. The diagnosis of dengue fatal cases is based on laboratorial techniques. In this study, we aimed to assess the usefulness of dengue virus nonstructural protein 1 (NS1) capture tests as a diagnostic technique to demonstrate dengue virus antigens in human tissue specimens. In this retrospective study, tissue homogenates from 23 fatal cases of dengue occurring in Brazil in 2002 were analyzed by three NS1 capture tests: Early ELISA test (PanBio), Platelia NS1 (BioRad) and the NS1 Ag Strip (BioRad). The NS1 antigen capture tests performance according to the different tissues available is shown on Table 2. The Early ELISA detected NS1 in 22.9% (17/74) of the tissues specimens analyzed and the Platelia NS1, 45.9% (34/74). The highest sensitivity (78.3%; 58/74) was by the NS1 Ag Strip, and the differences in the sensitivities were statistically significant (p<0.05). The NS1 Ag Strip was the most sensitive in liver (91.3%, 21/23), lung (71.4%, 10/14), kidney (100%, 4/4), brain (80%, 8/10), spleen (66.6%, 10/15) and thymus (100%, 3/3) when compared to the other two assays. The NS1 antigen capture tests were 87.0% (20/23) sensitive in confirming the fatal cases. The Early ELISA test (PanBio) was less efficient in detecting dengue infection in tissues from fatal cases (34.7%) when compared to the Platelia test (60.8%) and the NS1 Ag Strip (91.3%). The NS1 Ag Strip was the most sensitive in liver (91.3%, 21/23), lung (71.4%, 10/14), kidney (100%, 4/4), brain (80%, 8/10), spleen (66.6%, 10/15) and thymus (100%, 3/3) when compared to the other two assays. The NS1 antigen capture tests were 87.0% (20/23) sensitive in confirming the fatal cases. The Early ELISA test (PanBio) was less efficient in detecting dengue infection in tissues from fatal cases (34.7%) when compared to the Platelia test (60.8%) and the NS1 Ag Strip (91.3%). The NS1 Ag Strip was the most sensitive in liver (91.3%, 21/23), lung (71.4%, 10/14), kidney (100%, 4/4), brain (80%, 8/10), spleen (66.6%, 10/15) and thymus (100%, 3/3) when compared to the other two assays.
The majority of people living with HIV have yet to be tested, compromising the effectiveness of HIV treatment and prevention programs. Low HIV testing rates among key populations, including men who have sex with men (MSM), are particularly problematic in low- and middle-income countries (LMIC). Community-based interventions have shown promise in improving HIV testing rates among MSM. Crowdsourcing can be a useful tool to develop community-driven health services, such as HIV testing. In this stepped wedge cluster randomized controlled trial, we evaluated the effectiveness of a crowdsourced intervention on HIV testing uptake among MSM in eight Chinese cities. We recruited 1,381 MSM from Guangdong and Shandong provinces. We randomly assigned the order of intervention for each of the four cities in Guangdong province and Shandong province, then paired the cities by order of intervention (n = 3 per city). We implemented the intervention over 12 months. We evaluated the effect of the intervention on HIV testing using an intention-to-treat analysis. We found that the intervention increased the probability of HIV testing by 8.9% (95% CI 2.2–15.5) during the intervention period compared to the control period. The intervention also increased HIV self-testing. Our findings demonstrate that crowdsourcing can help spur the development of new HIV testing services. Our data suggest that crowdsourcing approaches may be an important tool for localizing and differentiating HIV services.
Cytomegaloviruses (CMVs) encode several immune evasion strategies, including the capture of host cell surface receptors. Here, we report that the owl monkey CMV encodes a CD48 homolog, A43, that can act as a decoy molecule to counteract the CD48/2B4 axis. A43 is a soluble protein that binds to host 2B4 with high affinity and stability, and it is shed from infected cells within hours after infection. We show that A43 can block the interaction of host 2B4 with host CD48, as well as the interaction of human 2B4 with human CD48. Moreover, we present that A43 can interfere with the formation of the mature cytotoxic NK cell immune synapse, and inhibit NK cell-mediated lysis of target cells. Together, our results demonstrate that A43 is a viral decoy molecule that can act as a negative regulator of the immune response.
Lipid metabolism is essential for myelination. Here, we show that astrocytes are a major contributor to myelin lipid synthesis and that lipid flux from the circulation is required for myelin membrane synthesis in the brain. We used Cre-mediated inactivation of the transcription factor SREBP cleavage-activating protein (SCAP) in oligodendrocytes and astrocytes to determine the role of astrocytes in myelin lipid synthesis. We found that compromised lipid metabolism in astrocytes led to CNS hypomyelination, which could be overcome by a diet rich in cholesterol and fatty acids. Moreover, we found that myelin membrane synthesis in CNP-SCAP mice, in which SCAP was deleted in both oligodendrocytes and astrocytes, was almost absent. We conclude that lipid synthesis by oligodendrocytes is heavily supplemented by astrocytes in vivo.
The three-dimensional structure of proteins is a key component in understanding their biological function. A large number of proteins have been sequenced, and the availability of multiple sequence alignments has allowed for a systematic approach to contact prediction, which is an important step in protein structure prediction. Here, we show that all three dimensions of contact prediction, data, model and method, are important for overall prediction success. We also show that the pairwise interaction models, or Potts models, used so far in contact prediction can be significantly improved by learning a model which takes into account the existence of gaps in the multiple sequence alignment. We propose a new method of contact prediction, called gap-enhanced pseudo maximum-likelihood direct contact analysis (gplmDCA), which we believe will be useful for future protein structure prediction endeavors.
Hantaan virus (HTNV) is a zoonotic virus that can cause severe hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS) in humans. The main public health concern in Asia regarding HTNV infection is the high mortality rate among infected individuals. The identification of the epitopes of the HTNV nucleoprotein (NP) and the evaluation of the epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell response in patients infected with HTNV are important for the development of an effective peptide vaccine against HTNV infection. We identified five well-conserved CD8+ T-cell epitopes of the HTNV NP by interferon-γ enzyme-linked immunospot assay in 37 patients infected with HTNV during hospitalization. Two of the epitopes, aa129–aa137 and aa131–aa139, were selected for further evaluation. The frequency of epitope-specific CD8+ T cells was 0.080%–0.208% and 0.030%–0.094% for two epitopes, respectively. The frequency of epitope-specific CD8+ T cells was higher in mild/moderate patients than in severe/critical ones at the acute stage of the disease. The frequency of epitope-specific CD8+ T cells was inversely associated with the peak level of serum creatinine and the nadir of platelet counts during the hospitalization. Our results provided new insights into understanding the relationship between single epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell response and disease control in acute zoonotic HTNV infections in humans, which could be a rationale to explore immunotherapy as an adjunctive therapy in people with HFRS and will help to speed up the novel vaccine design process against the HTNV infection.
The 2014–2015 Ebola outbreak has deeply impacted health systems in Guinea and other affected countries. We aimed to assess the impact of the Ebola outbreak on sleeping sickness screening and caring activities in the three coastal Guinean focuses of Boffa, Dubreka and Forecariah. Data were collected from 2012 to 2015 and analyzed using a retrospective approach. All persons screened during active campaigns and passively tested in the three districts were included. Data were analyzed using a retrospective approach. The Ebola outbreak had a significant impact on sleeping sickness screening and caring activities in the three coastal Guinean focuses of Boffa, Dubreka and Forecariah. The number of persons screened during active campaigns decreased by 83% and 96% during the Ebola period, respectively, compared to the pre-Ebola period. The number of persons screened passively at health centers decreased by 50% and then to zero during the Ebola period. The number of patients treated for sleeping sickness was reduced by 2/3 during Ebola. The proportion of patients diagnosed with stage 2 disease increased from 57% to 97% during Ebola. The estimated disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) generated during the pre-Ebola period were 48.7. During Ebola, they increased to 466.3 (455.7–477.0). The Ebola outbreak had a major impact on sleeping sickness screening and caring activities in the three coastal Guinean focuses of Boffa, Dubreka and Forecariah.
Schizophrenia is a common psychiatric disorder with a large genetic component. It is known that the risk of schizophrenia is higher in women than men. However, despite the large heritability of schizophrenia, genetic factors have so far been unsuccessful in identifying a sex-specific association with the disease. We have carried out a genome-wide association study of schizophrenia using pooled DNA. We identified one SNP in the fourth intron of the reelin gene that confers a sex-specific risk of schizophrenia. The female-specific association was replicated in three other populations. The association is unlikely to be the result of population stratification. This is the first sex-specific genetic association with schizophrenia.
Candidiasis is a common opportunistic infection of the oral cavity and is often associated with immune suppression. The fungus Candida albicans is the most common cause of oral candidiasis and is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised individuals. The mechanisms of pathogenesis of C. albicans are largely unknown. We therefore performed a genome-wide transcriptional profiling of samples from HIV+ patients with oral candidiasis and of in vitro oral infection models. We identified 12 novel genes associated with oral infection and analyzed their role in oral candidiasis. We found that the gene DUR31 (orf19.6656) was specifically upregulated during oral candidiasis and was required for oral epithelial damage, endothelial cell damage, and filamentous growth in vitro. In addition, DUR31 was involved in the transport of histatin 5, a potent antimicrobial peptide, into the host cell. DUR31 is a sodium/substrate symporter and its gene is evolutionarily conserved in C. albicans. However, in C. albicans, it is not a urea transporter as previously suggested, but rather a transporter for polyamines and amino acids. The results of this study provide a comprehensive insight into the mechanisms of pathogenesis of C. albicans and provide a novel candidate for oral candidiasis.
The differentiation of B cells into antibody-secreting plasma cells (PCs) and memory cells (Mem) is a complex process that is regulated by a network of transcription factors and signaling pathways. Here, we infer a regulatory network that controls the terminal differentiation of B cells from the precursor B cell (Naive) to the GC, Mem or PC cell types. We construct two dynamical systems, one discrete and one continuous, to analyze the dynamical properties of the regulatory network. The discrete system allows us to describe the differentiation pattern from Naive to any of the GC, Mem, or PC cell types under the presence of external signals. The continuous model predicts the existence of intermediary states that could be reached by the network, but that have not been reported experimentally. The model also predicts the existence of specific interactions necessary for the network to ensure the proper pattern of terminal differentiation of B cells.
