DNA methylation is a key epigenetic mechanism that regulates gene expression and is altered in many types of cancer. Here, we report a comprehensive catalogue of differentially methylated regions (DMRs) in intestinal adenoma, a model for early stages of tumour development. The analysis identified a core epigenetic signature of intestinal cancer, which is conserved between mice and humans. These findings suggest that the early epigenetic changes in intestinal adenoma are not caused by pre-existing epigenetic patterns in normal intestinal tissue, but rather by de novo epigenetic changes that occur in a recurring manner. Our data further suggest that the core epigenetic signature is established early during tumour formation and is retained when the cancer epigenome is further modified during tumour progression to carcinoma.
Six discrete typing units (DTUs) have been identified in Trypanosoma cruzi. The Y strain and Col cl1.7 strain represent the two major genetic groups of T. cruzi–Tc I (Col cl1.7) and Tc II (Y strain) [10] [19]. These two strains were isolated from patients and are used as experimental models of T. cruzi infection. We evaluated the effects of infection by these two strains on immunological characteristics of human monocytes and lymphocytes. Our data showed that infection with either strain led to a higher expression of HLA-DR and TLR-2 by infected monocytes (CD14+CFSE+). However, the expression of CD80 and CD86 was different between the two strains. Infection with Col cl1.7 led to an increase in the expression of CD80 and CD86 by infected monocytes, while infection with Y strain did not show this effect. The expression of TNF-alpha and IL-10 was similar in monocytes infected by both strains. The expression of IL-12/IL-23p40 was similar in monocytes infected by both strains. Infection with Y strain led to an increase in the percentage and intensity of TNF-alpha production by CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocytes. Infection with Col cl1.7 led to a higher percentage of IL-17+ T cells. The increased expression of IL-17, TNF-alpha and Granzyme A by CD8+ T cells was only observed after infection with Y strain. In conclusion, our results show that the two strains of T. cruzi lead to different immunological profiles in human monocytes and lymphocytes. These data are consistent with the results observed in experimental models, in which Col parental strain and its clones displays low virulence and are able to induce chronification of infection.
DNA polymerase ν (pol ν) is a DNA polymerase that is present in mammalian cells, but its function is not known. We have investigated the function of pol ν in mice using genetic and biochemical approaches. The gene encoding pol ν (POLN) was expressed specifically in testis in mice. We used three different mouse models to disrupt pol ν function and found that mice with disrupted pol ν were viable, fertile, and had no anatomic abnormalities. However, pol ν-deficient mice had a modestly reduced crossover frequency at a specific meiotic recombination hot spot with insertion/deletion polymorphisms. We also examined the potential role of pol ν in DNA repair and immunoglobulin class-switch recombination, but found no alterations. Inactivation of pol ν in human cells did not influence the sensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents or the frequency of MMC-induced radial chromosomes. Our results suggest that pol ν is involved in meiotic recombination in testis.
Dengue is a growing threat to public health. Dengue virus belongs to the Flavivirus genus of the Flaviviridae family. Four different serotypes of dengue virus are recognized, and the existence of four serotypes of the dengue virus complicates the development of an effective and safe dengue vaccine. In this study, we expressed lipidated dengue-2 envelope protein domain III (LD2ED III) in Escherichia coli during the study. The formulation containing lipidated D2ED III was able to elicit higher D2ED III-specific antibody responses compared to the nonlipidated counterpart, D2ED III, and dengue-2 virus. The antibodies induced by LD2ED III had higher avidity and neutralizing capacity compared to those induced by D2ED III and dengue-2 virus. The potential risk of infection of LD2ED III was mitigated by lipidation. The lipidated subunit vaccine approach could potentially be applied to other serotypes of the dengue virus and other pathogens. The study suggests that the lipidated subunit vaccine approach represents a promising method of dengue vaccine development and may complement the deficiencies of the CYD tetravalent dengue vaccine.
Fluctuations in signaling protein concentrations can lead to cell-to-cell variability in protein kinase signaling. We systematically analyze the cell-to-cell variability of protein kinase cascades with a particular focus on the yeast pheromone pathway. We show that cell-to-cell variability in the pheromone pathway can be actively regulated by negative feedback loops and that the robustness of the pathway is determined by the timing of negative feedback regulation. Our results explain why the yeast pheromone pathway shows switch-like decision making with little cell-to-cell variability.
CD8+ T cells are essential for protection against Leishmania donovani infection in mice, but their role in experimental visceral leishmaniasis (VL) has not been studied so far. Here, we show that ovalbumin-expressing transgenic Leishmania donovani parasites induce a dysfunctional CD8+ T cell response, characterized by limited expansion and functional exhaustion and cell death. In vivo blockade of the inhibitory receptor B7-H1 partially rescued dysfunctional CD8+ T cells, but failed to restore cytokine production. Surprisingly, B7-H1 blockade significantly reduced the parasite burden in the spleen and liver. In contrast, B7-H1 blockade had no effect on parasite burden in the liver. These results suggest that CD8+ T cell responses in VL are controlled by an intricate interplay of inhibitory and costimulatory pathways, and that the PD-1/B7-H1 pathway plays a key role in the suppression of CD8+ T cell responses.
The misfolding of the prion protein (PrP) is a key aspect of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs). It is believed that PrP misfolding is triggered by the protonation of a buried residue, H187, which is found in the C-terminal part of the protein. However, the underlying molecular mechanism remains unknown. Here, we have performed molecular dynamics simulations of the structured C-terminal domain of mammalian PrP at pH 4.5, which corresponds approximately to the lowest pH observed in endosomes. Our simulations show that the protonation of H187 leads to extensive conformational changes on the microsecond time scale. We find that the protonation of H187 induces an electrostatic repulsion between the positive charges of and , which results in conformational transitions in the regions to which H187 and R136 are linked, namely H2(Cter) and respectively. Our findings hence highlight two possible routes for PrP misfolding with either the unraveling of H2(Cter) alone (route) or the unraveling of H2(Cter) with simultaneous elongation of S1,S2 (route).
Trachomatous trichiasis (TT) is a major cause of blindness worldwide. Managing TT is a public health priority. The purpose of managing TT is to reduce the risk of vision loss. Epilation is a widespread traditional practice in many trachoma endemic societies. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the long-term effectiveness of quality trichiasis surgery versus repeated epilation in reducing the risk of vision loss. This study was conducted in West Gojjam, Amhara Region, Ethiopia. Participants were randomly assigned to receive quality trichiasis surgery or epilation using high quality epilation forceps. Participants were examined six-monthly for two years, and then at four years after randomization. At the four-year mark, all participants with recurrent trichiasis were offered free trichiasis surgery. At four-years, 1151 (88.5%) participants were re-examined: 579 (89%) participants from the surgery arm and 572 (88%) from the epilation arm. The baseline demographic and clinical characteristics of these individuals are shown in Table 1. The epilation-only group had poorer baseline visual acuity compared to both the surgery arm participants and the epilation-to-surgery group. However, there was no difference in visual acuity change (baseline to four-years) between the epilating and surgery groups, which is similar to what we reported at two-years. The epilation-only group had more baseline corneal opacity than the surgery arm participants and the epilation-to-surgery group. However, there was no significant difference in change of corneal opacity between the different groups at four-years. At four-years, 207 (54.1%) of the epilation-only participants were successfully epilating, 166 (43.3%) had minor trichiasis (<6 lashes) and 10 (2.6%) had major trichiasis (>5 lashes). Overall, the epilation-only group had more trichiasis, entropion and lid margin conjunctivalisation than either the surgery arm or the epilation-to-surgery group. In this study, surgery was better than epilation at correcting entropion and controlling trichiasis. However, it should be noted that at four-years 76.2% of the epilation-only participants had mild or no entropion, and 63.4% had no entropion progression. The epilation-only group generally controlled their trichiasis well by epilation, with only a few showing signs of significant progression.
The role of the mannose receptor (MR) in dengue virus (DV) infection is unknown. We show that MR binds to DV grown in mosquito cells and to recombinant mammalian cell–produced DV envelope glycoprotein. A recombinant MR fusion protein (CRD4–7-Fc) was shown to recognize DV envelope (E) protein in ELISA and blot overlays, and binding was inhibited by mannose, fucose and EDTA. The presence of MR on transfected cells is sufficient to confer DV binding. DV infection of primary human MØ was blocked by antibodies against the human MR suggesting that it is a novel functional receptor contributing to DV infection. We also show that type 2 cytokines (IL-4/IL-13), which upregulate MR expression, increase the susceptibility of MØ to DV infection in vitro.
The purpose of computational simulations of spontaneous neural dynamics is to study and understand interactions between neural dynamics and the environment. In this paper, we use a simple model of an agent moving in a virtual environment to study the role of homeostatic plasticity in the context of neural dynamics. We adapt an established simulation of basic neural dynamics, incorporating information about human structural connectivity. At rest, this model has been shown to approximate empirical functional connectivity patterns observed macroscopically. In the model at rest, dynamics arise from low-probability random firing which propagates through recurrent connections. We explore the extent to which these two balancing systems may perform complementary roles in maintaining flexible dynamics in the case of closed-loop brain-environment interactions. We show that local homeostatic plasticity allows the agent to escape constrained environment-brain feedback loops and more completely traverse the environment.
The three-dimensional organization of chromosomes is important for gene regulation. Long-distance chromosomal interactions are known to play a role in gene regulation, but their extent and specificity are not clear. We developed a medium-throughput assay to screen for functional long-distance interactions in yeast. A promoter flanked by invariable sequences of more than 1 kb in length was ectopically inserted into thousands of genomic loci, allowing it to make contact with different parts of the genome. A change in promoter activity in this case would necessarily involve mechanisms that function over a distance. In a small fraction of genomic locations (30 out of 1327), we observed modulations of the promoter activity with three distinct patterns. We then thoroughly investigated the regulatory mechanisms that cause these changes. We showed that Sir-dependent silencing and transcriptional interference can repress gene expression to a comparable extent, but cause different levels of noise. We also found evidence that the reporter gene can acquire higher activity by clustering with a subset of co-regulated genes.
Chromosome axes are positioned by crossovers/chiasmata during meiosis I. Crossover assurance helps ensure appropriate positional segregation. Here, we investigate the interplay between crossover control and chromosome axis morphogenesis during meiosis I in S. cerevisiae. Chromosomal localization of the crossover designation marker Zip3 was examined in wild-type (WT) and mutant cells. Chromosomes from WT and pch2Δ cells were analyzed by tetrad dissection for recombination outcomes. In WT, Zip3 localizes as distinct foci along chromosome axes. In pch2Δ, Zip3 foci are more numerous, and are often not well separated. Tetrad dissection revealed that in WT, homologs are preferentially segregated at alternating domains along chromosome axes, while in pch2Δ, homologs are not segregated at distinct domains. In WT, homolog axes are of similar lengths, while in pch2Δ, axis length is increased. In a second strain, pch2Δ, the number of Zip3 foci is increased. Together, these findings demonstrate that Pch2 plays a critical role in controlling both the number of Zip3 foci and the length of homolog axes. Defects in crossover interference in pch2Δ are dramatically modulated by incubation temperature. We propose a model where Pch2 mediates establishment of multiple crossover control modules along each chromosome, with potential effects on crossover interference and spore viability.
Pathogen perception by the plant innate immune system is important for plant survival and productivity. RIN4 is a negative regulator of plant innate immunity and regulates the expression of multiple pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs). RIN4 overexpression lines exhibit enhanced callose deposition and resistance to virulent Pseudomonas syringae. We have purified and identified RIN4 associated proteins, including the PM H+-ATPases AHA1 and AHA2. We also show that RIN4 can interact with the C-terminal regulatory domain of AHA1 and AHA2. We demonstrate that RIN4 overexpression enhances PM H+-ATPase activity, while the rin4 knockout line exhibits decreased PM H+-ATPase activity. Importantly, we demonstrate that the rin4 knockout cannot re-open its stomata in response to virulent Pst. We also show that RIN4 is expressed in guard cells and interacts with multiple innate immune signaling components. Our data suggest that RIN4 acts in concert with the PM H+-ATPases AHA1 and AHA2 to regulate stomatal apertures in response to pathogen attack.
The introduction of infectious travelers and the subsequent spread of arboviral infections by vectors are responsible for the outbreak of chikungunya and dengue in European countries. We evaluated the effect of routine larviciding against Aedes (Stegomyia) albopictus in preventing the spread of these infections. We used data collected during 2014 and 2015 from ten municipalities in Northern Italy to parameterize a mathematical model of mosquito population dynamics and control. The model was coupled with a transmission dynamics model and a cost-effectiveness analysis to identify suitable routine vector control strategies for temperate climate municipalities in Europe. We found that the probability of local transmission was up to 30% in 2015, with a non-negligible probability of observing outbreaks larger than 50 cases in most sites. We found that the most effective interventions in reducing the amount of expected locally transmitted cases were those for which the window of larvicide efficacy covered at least the month of July. Routine larviciding reduced the probability of secondary cases only moderately, but it had an important impact in avoiding larger outbreaks. Our analysis included two seasons that were representative of a broad range of mosquito abundances, due to the remarkable temperature differences. The cost-effectiveness of larviciding depends on the actual mosquito abundance in a given year; however, general rules could be identified independently of the considered year: small villages (<10,000 inhabitants) with moderate-to-high mosquito abundances will maximally benefit of intense larviciding efforts made of season-round monthly treatment of public catch basins. For medium-sized towns (20–35,000 inhabitants) with high infestation rate, the benefits are partially offset by the higher cost of intervention; in these cases, a moderate larviciding effort (1 to 3 treatments within the season) is recommended. Larger cities in our study (>35,000 inhabitants) were characterized by a low or intermediate transmission risk, and the high costs of an intervention covering the entire urban area made it economically disadvantageous. In these situations, treating specific neighbourhoods with highest mosquito abundance (called ‘hot spot' approach [25]) may be cost-effective.
Bats use echolocation to navigate and find prey in their environment. They emit high frequency calls that are directed towards their environment. The echoes that return from the environment are used by the bat to determine its position and to navigate its environment. Obstacle avoidance is a fundamental aspect of echolocation. However, little is known about the minimal set of cues necessary to support obstacle avoidance in bats. Here, we present a computational model of obstacle avoidance in a bat. We propose that the bat uses only two cues: the interaural intensity difference (IID) and the travel time of the first millisecond of the echo train. We test the performance of the proposed controller in 2D and 3D environments. Our results show that the IID and the delay of the first echo are sufficient for the synthetic bat to successfully avoid obstacles in both 2D and 3D environments. We also show that obstacle avoidance is robust to the absence of a 3D reconstruction capability.
The enigma of life's origin is closely tied to the origin of metabolism. The question of understanding the evolutionary history and complex wiring of metabolic networks is intimately related to the enigma of life's origin. Here we seek to address this problem by exploring a system that can reach a level of complexity comparable to the one observed in the union of all known metabolic pathways, yet is simple enough to allow efficient computation and analytical calculations. We map the artificial chemistry onto a simplified carbon atom reaction backbone. We find that the properties predicted for the artificial chemistry also hold for real metabolic networks. In particular, the pathways display autocatalytic cycles, hierarchical modules, universally preferable metabolites and reactions, and a logarithmic trend of pathway length as a function of input/output molecule size. We borrow some of the analytically predicted properties from cryptography to derive others. Our results suggest that understanding the evolutionary history and complex wiring of metabolic networks might be intimately related to the enigma of life's origin.
Genetic diversity plays a fundamental role in species by influencing the level of genetic similarity across populations and how it changes with geographic distance. However, few methods exist to study and visualize genetic relationships across space and time. Here, we develop a promising approach to understanding how migration rates vary across geographic space and time. We use a method called MAPS to infer maps of population sizes and migration rates associated with different time periods. Our method takes as input geographic coordinates for a set of individuals sampled across a spatial landscape, and a matrix of their genetic similarities as measured by sharing of long pairwise shared coalescence (lPSC) segments. We then infer two maps, one representing dispersal rates across the landscape, and another representing population density. Importantly, building these maps using different lengths of lPSC segments can help reveal changes in dispersal rates and population sizes loosely associated with different recent time periods. We apply our method to a contemporary European dataset called POPRES. Our results provide insight into the recent population history of Europe and suggest that migration rates have been changing over time.
Defective insulin signaling is associated with ageing and contributes to the development of metabolic disease. Insulin resistance in the liver leads to chronic damage and fibrosis. How defective insulin signaling affects tissue-repair mechanisms in the liver remains unknown. Here, we provide evidence for a role of insulin receptor substrate 2 (Irs2) in promoting paracrine fibroblast growth factor 7 (Fgf7) signaling in the fibrotic stroma and in bipotent adult liver progenitor cells (LPCs). Irs2 deletion in mice impaired hepatic wound healing, reduced Fgf7 expression in stroma, and delayed epithelial repair in periportal tracts. Irs2 silencing in human hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) also impaired paracrine Fgf7 signaling and led to fibrogenic reversion and increased fibrosis in cocultures of HSCs and LPCs. Our data therefore provide new insight into how insulin resistance in the liver impairs hepatic wound healing and contribute to the development of chronic liver disease.
Dendritic arbor morphogenesis is a critical process in the development of sensory neurons. Dysregulation of this process has been implicated in several neurological disorders. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is the primary cellular site for secretory protein and lipid biosynthesis, both of which are essential for proper cellular function. In agreement, disruption of ER homeostasis is associated with pathologies such as neurodegenerative disorders. To prevent deleterious outcomes of perturbed ER homeostasis, a cellular program called the Unfolded Protein Response (UPR) is triggered at times of increased load on the ER (i.e. ER stress) to ensure that ER homeostasis is retained regardless of the dynamic nature of cellular demand. In mammals, the UPR is composed of three pathways that are initiated by distinct ER stress sensors: inositol-requiring enzyme 1 (IRE-1), protein kinase RNA (PKR)-like ER kinase (PERK), and activating transcription factor-6 (ATF6). IRE-1 is the most ancient of the UPR sensors, being conserved from yeast to humans. Here, we demonstrate that IRE-1’s role in dendrite arborization is conserved during evolution from C. elegans to mammals. We show that IRE-1’s nuclease activity is necessary for its role in dendrite morphogenesis. Mutations in xbp-1, a target of non-canonical splicing by IRE-1/Ire1, cause PVD phenotypes. However, mutations in other ER stress sensors do not affect PVD phenotypes. We find that the secretory block in ire-1 mutants is caused by a trafficking defect in the DMA-1/leucine rich transmembrane receptor. This defect can be bypassed by reducing Insulin/IGF1 signaling. Our findings suggest that promoting ER homeostasis, e.g. by reducing IIS, can overcome morphological defects in neuronal patterning. This underscores the importance of discovering and investigating new approaches that can bypass excessive ER stress.
Understanding how cells control redox balance globally at the level of gene expression is a major challenge. The ArcAB two component system, which is maximally activated under anaerobic fermentative conditions, is a well-studied example of a transcriptional regulator that controls redox homeostasis. However, the mechanism by which ArcA regulates carbon metabolism is not well understood. We have mapped the regulon of ArcA in Escherichia coli and identified novel binding sites with a novel plasticity in their architecture. These sites are characterized by the presence of additional direct repeat elements beyond the two required for binding an ArcA dimer. Bioinformatic analyses revealed that the plasticity in ArcA binding site architecture allows efficient binding sites encoding for ArcA and other transcription factors and helps in global control of carbon metabolism to maintain redox homeostasis.
Retinoblastoma (Rb) is a tumor suppressor that is frequently mutated in human malignancies. However, the molecular and genetic mechanisms responsible for Rb downregulation are not fully defined. We used a forward genetic screen in zebrafish to identify a mutation associated with Rb downregulation in usp39, a gene encoding a component of RNA splicing machinery. The usp39 mutant exhibited microcephaly and adenohypophyseal cell lineage expansion without apparent changes in major hypothalamic hormonal and regulatory signals. Quantitative RT-PCR and microarray analysis revealed that the mutant exhibited decreased rb1 and increased e2f4, rbl2 (p130), and cdkn1a (p21) expression. Overexpressing Rb1 mRNA partially reversed embryonic pituitary expansion in usp39 mutants. Misspliced Rb1 pre-mRNA in usp39 mutants results in a premature stop codon. Zebrafish usp39 regulates embryonic pituitary homeostasis by targeting rb1 and e2f4 expression. Dysregulated rb1 and e2f4 pathways may result in pituitary tumorigenesis.
The major cause of central nervous system disease in infants and children is infection of the developing fetus with human cytomegalovirus (HCMV). However, the mechanism(s) of disease associated with this intrauterine infection remain poorly understood. In this study, we used a mouse model of HCMV infection to investigate the role of the inflammatory response in the developmental abnormalities that occur in the cerebellum of infected animals. We found that inflammatory responses in the cerebellum of infected animals were associated with altered development of the cerebellar cortex, including increased thickness of the external granular layer and decreased thickness of the internal granular layer. Treatment with glucocorticoids attenuated the inflammatory response in the cerebellum of infected animals and normalized the developmental abnormalities in the cerebellum. These findings suggest that the inflammatory response to infection is a major mechanism of disease associated with HCMV infection of the developing brain.
Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) are a major cause of diarrheal illness in developing countries where they cause hundreds of millions of infections and an estimated 300,000–500,000 deaths annually. Recent immunoproteomic studies suggesting that multiple autotransporter passenger domains are recognized during ETEC infection prompted the present studies. Available ETEC genomes were examined to identify autotransporter coding sequences present in pathogenic isolates but not in the commensal E. coli HS strain. Recombinant passenger domains derived from autotransporters Ag43 and pAT were recognized by antibodies from mice following intestinal challenge with ETEC. Ag43 and pAT were identified on the surface of ETEC using flow cytometry. Convalescent sera from patients with ETEC diarrhea recognized Ag43 and pAT. Vaccination of mice with recombinant passenger domains from pAT or Ag43 provided protection against intestinal colonization with ETEC. Passenger domains of conserved autotransporter proteins could contribute to protective immune responses and represent potential targets for vaccine development in ETEC infections.
Clinical and epidemiological data were collected from 88 cases of Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever (CCHF) in Oman between 1995 and 2017. Cases were detected by passive surveillance, starting with a few sporadic reports in 1995 and 1996, followed by no cases until 2011. Since then there has been a sustained increase in yearly reports. There were 4 sporadic cases in 1995 and 1996, followed by no cases until 2011. From 2011 to 2017, the incidence steadily increased. The patients had a median (range) age of 33 (15–68) years and 79 (90%) were male. The most common nationality affected was Omani 51 (59%) followed by Bangladeshi 18 (21%), Pakistani 7 (8%), Yemeni 3 (4%), Indian 4 (5%), Somali 2, and Sri Lankan 1. Cases occurred in all governorates (wilayats) except Musandam and Al Wustah. The main exposure risk identified was animal/fresh tissue exposure in 73/88 (83%), with only 1 case attributed to tick bite alone. Diagnosis was confirmed by serology and/or molecular tests. Stored viral RNA from 12 patients presenting in 2013 and 2014 was sequenced for the entire S segment ORF of each of the 12 samples, all grouped in the Asia 1 (IV) clade. The cumulative mortality was 36.4%, and no cases of healthcare related or intrafamilial spread of infection were reported.
Robustness of cellular functions against environmental fluctuations is a common design principle in biological systems. Here, we show that robustness of the budding yeast cell cycle is caused by quantitative regulation of cellular components. Using a previously developed genetic experiment designated “genetic tug-of-war” (gTOW), we found that dosage imbalance between CDC14 and NET1 causes extreme fragility of the cell cycle, and the prediction of Chen's model was not consistent with experimental data. We thus hypothesized that dosage imbalance between ESP1 and PDS1 masks this fragility. To test this hypothesis, we performed a gTOW experiment with ESP1 overexpression in cdh1Δ and clb2Δ mutants, and found that ESP1 overexpression was not tolerated by the cell when dosage balance between ESP1 and PDS1 was disrupted. We thus conclude that dosage imbalance between enzyme and its inhibitor causes cellular fragility. We further suggest that knowledge about cellular robustness can be effectively used to improve integrative mathematical models.
The role of STAT6 in herpesvirus lytic replication remains elusive. Here we show that the transcription factor RTA, encoded by Kaposi’s sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV), induces the degradation of STAT6 by promoting its ubiquitylation via the proteasome and lysosome pathways. The degradation of STAT6 is associated with the increased expression and ubiquitylated form of tripartite motif family like 2 (TRIML2), a p53-associated tumor suppressor. Our study indicates that STAT6 degradation is essential for lytic activation of KSHV and other human herpesviruses.
The greatest burden of dengue fever and dengue hemorrhagic fever cases was observed in 200 in the city of Dhaka, Bangladesh. The objectives of this study were to determine the magnitude of seroprevalence and seroconversion among the surveyed population, and establish the individual/household level risk factors for the presence of DENV antibodies. A total of 1125 individuals from 635 households were selected for serological surveys in 2012. Paired serum samples were collected from 600 individuals (53.3% of the original 1125 participants) during the post-monsoon time point. The overall dengue virus (DENV) IgG seroprevalence was 80% (900/1125) during the pre-monsoon survey, and 93% (559/600) during the post-monsoon survey indicating a high level of seroconversion. Seroprevalence was significantly associated with age (p < 0.0001), number of indoor potted plants (p < 0.0001), and types of mosquito control measures used (p < 0.0001). The extent of seroconversion was significantly associated with attendance in public gatherings (p < 0.0001) and types of mosquito control measures used (p < 0.0001). The results suggest that the city of Dhaka is at high risk of dengue transmission and that there is a need for improved vector control measures in the city.
Clostridium difficile is the most common cause of nosocomial diarrhea. C. difficile spores germinate in the intestine in the presence of specific bile salts, and then multiply and produce toxins, leading to diarrhea, colitis, pseudomembranous colitis or more severe symptoms including bowel perforation, sepsis and death. The strict anaerobe C. difficile spores are the main cause of nosocomial diarrhea. The main mechanisms underlying spore formation in C. difficile are largely conserved relative to B. subtilis. However, recent work has highlighted important differences in the genetic control of sporulation between the aerobic bacilli and the anaerobic clostridia. In C. difficile, the main functions and periods of activity of the sporulation σ factors are largely conserved relative to B. subtilis. However, the excision of the skinCd element from the sigK gene, a key event in sporulation, is not seen in a spoIIID mutant, indicating that a factor is required in addition to σE and SpoIIID for this event. We show that SpoIIID is required for skinCd excision, but that it is not sufficient to explain the onset of σK activity. We show that CD1231 and CD1234 are required for skinCd excision in both E. coli and C. difficile. Moreover, we demonstrate that CD1234 is a recombination directionality factor (RDF) assisting CD1231 in skinCd excision. Finally, we show that CD1231 is sufficient for the integration event that results from the recombination between attP and attB, but requires CD1234 for the excision event that results from the recombination reaction involving attL and attR.
The human microbiome constitutes a rich source of microbial features for prediction and biomarker discovery in the context of human diseases and health conditions. Here we perform a systematic analysis of 2424 shotgun metagenomic samples from eight studies to assess the strength of microbiome-phenotype associations. We propose a computational framework for prediction tasks using quantitative microbiome profiles, including species-level relative abundances and presence of strain-specific markers. We show that a machine-learning software framework is available online at http://segatalab.cibio.unitn.it/tools/metaml. Our results indicate that the strength of microbiome-phenotype associations can be quantitatively assessed in shotgun metagenomic analysis. We also demonstrate the importance of cross-study validation and the effectiveness of transferring models between studies. We also identify several strain-level biomarkers that may be used as general dysbiotic markers.
HLA-B*5701 is the host factor most strongly associated with slow HIV-1 disease progression. However, the exact mechanism of HLA-B*5701-mediated slow disease progression is still unknown. In this study, we analyzed the interplay between HIV-1 evolutionary rate variation and risk of progression in HLA-B*5701 subjects. We used longitudinal viral sequences from high-risk progressors (HRPs) and low-risk progressors (LRPs) and estimated the absolute rates of nonsynonymous and synonymous substitutions using Bayesian relaxed molecular clock methodology. The observed differences in viral evolution rates did not correlate with viral fitness, as measured by in vitro replication capacity. Besides viral fitness, were there any other factors that could explain the observed differences in viral evolution rates? No, the study found that the observed differences in viral evolution rates could not be explained by differences in T cell activation or selection pressure among the study subjects. The study suggests that the observed lower replication rate in HLA-B*5701 subjects with higher baseline CD4+ T cell counts provides a potential model to explain differences in risk of disease progression.
Elucidating the mechanism of action of trypanocidal compounds is important in developing more effective drugs against Trypanosoma brucei. Using a screening approach using an RNAi library in T. brucei bloodstream forms, we identified TbMCP14 as a prime candidate mediating the action of anti-parasitic choline analogs. Depletion of TbMCP14 by RNAi in both bloodstream and procyclic forms increased resistance of parasites towards the compounds by 7-fold and 3-fold, respectively. Depletion of TbMCP14 by RNAi in procyclic forms increased parasite susceptibility towards the choline analogs by more than 13-fold. Over-expression of TbMCP14 in procyclic forms increased parasite susceptibility by more than 13-fold. Depletion of TbMCP14 in procyclic forms resulted in growth arrest followed by parasite death. The time point at which parasite proliferation stops in TbMCP14-depleted procyclic forms was dependent on the availability of glucose as energy source in the culture medium. In addition, we show that TbMCP14 is involved in proline metabolism, possibly by acting as a mitochondrial proline carrier.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) play an important role in physiology and disease. Many GPCRs are considered potential drug targets, and orphan GPCRs are considered to have endogenous ligands for deorphanization. However, the ligands for some GPCRs have not been identified, and they are considered as orphan receptors. Here, we identified the first example of a genuinely orphan GPCR in placental mammals, bombesin receptor subtype-3 (BRS3). BRS3 was found to be connected to its original ligands, neuromedin B (NMB) and gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP), in nonplacental vertebrates, whereas placental mammalian BRS3 was not connected to these ligands and was considered as an orphan GPCR. We further showed that after positive selection in the placental mammalian lineage, the protein structure of placental mammalian BRS3 was altered, and its N terminus played an important role in its constitutive activity. Our results provide new insights into the evolution of GPCRs and the orphan GPCR concept.
Understanding sleep and its perturbation by environment, mutation, or medication remains a central problem in biomedical research. To address this challenge, we have developed a novel framework called SPINDLE, which uses a combination of convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and hidden Markov models (HMMs) to perform accurate and physiologically plausible automated sleep scoring of animal EEG/EMG recordings. SPINDLE was trained and evaluated on data from four independent animal cohorts, and it was able to generalize across animals from different experimental settings, labs and species. When compared to the individual human experts, SPINDLE showed practically equal agreement rate to the one human experts had between themselves, both for artifacts and vigilance states. Our main contributions are: (i) The SPINDLE method presented here (sketched in Fig 1) is designed to achieve high predictive performance preserved across different experimental settings and labs. (ii) Its architecture is carefully crafted in an end-to-end fashion around a CNN which operates on top of the preprocessed time-frequency channels of EEG/EMG. (iii) We exploit the ability of the CNN to learn highly discriminative and translation-invariant features, as this allows us to remain agnostic to changes in sleep patterns, in both time and frequency dimension. (iv) On top of the CNN, a hidden Markov model (HMM) describes vigilance state transition dynamics and suppresses physiologically impossible transitions when applicable. (v) We utilize an additional CNN to identify artifacts from data, and then combine the predictions of vigilance states with the predictions of artifacts to determine the artifact types.
Apicomplexan parasites like Toxoplasma gondii are able to manipulate their host metabolism to ensure steady supply of energy and anabolic building blocks for rapid growth. This is achieved by exploiting the host's isoprenoid metabolism. We show that T. gondii is able to import some isoprenoids from its host while it can also synthesize others. We propose a double-hit strategy combining inhibitors of both host and parasite isoprenoid pathways to combat Apicomplexan parasites.
The Sigatoka disease complex caused by the closely-related fungi Pseudocercospora musae, Pseudocercospora eumusae, and Pseudocercospora fijiensis is currently the most devastating disease on banana worldwide. To understand the evolutionary and genomic modifications associated with shifts in virulence spectra among the three species, we sequenced the genomes of P. eumusae and P. musae and compared them with the recently determined 74.1 Mb genome of P. fijiensis. Overall, the three species have fairly dissimilar repertoires of effector proteins, suggesting that they likely evolved different strategies for manipulating the host immune system. Although the three species show complementary patterns of expansions and contractions in core gene families related to metabolism and enzymatic degradation of plant cell walls, the more virulent P. fijiensis and P. eumusae share complementary patterns of expansions and contractions in core gene families related to metabolism. The fairly coordinated changes in the size and range of metabolic gene families shared between P. fijiensis and P. eumusae suggest that many of these families could have played a significant role in the evolution of virulence in these two pathogens. The fairly coordinated changes in the size and range of metabolic gene families shared between P. fijiensis and P. eumusae also suggest that many of these families could have played a significant role in the evolution of virulence in these two pathogens.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a severe parasitic disease that can be lethal if left untreated. The molecular pathways that contribute to the progression of VL are poorly understood. We investigated patterns of gene expression in patients with active VL, patients under remission of disease, asymptomatically infected individuals and healthy controls. We identified transcriptional profiles associated with activation of T lymphocytes via MHC class I and type I interferon signaling, while pathways related to myeloid cells were down-regulated. In addition, the relative proportions of monocytes and neutrophils were lower in VL patients. Validation by RT-qPCR supported the robustness of the expression data obtained by microarray analysis. Overall, our findings indicate that distinct transcriptional profiles are associated with distinct clinical-epidemiologic groups, whereby transcriptional profiles of patients under remission of disease are associated with a positive regulation of modules related to Notch signaling pathway, monocytes and neutrophils, whereas transcriptional profiles of VL patients are associated with a negative regulation of modules related to innate immune response.
The paradox of the evolution of cooperation is that natural selection should favor exploitative individuals who avoid paying their fair share of costs. However, cooperation can evolve in the presence of conflict between cooperating individuals. We used a mathematical model and measurements of signal production and response in a mutant gene to address the dearth of empirical data in understanding the evolution of cooperative behavior. We found that apparently complex social behavior can occur without the need for partner recognition. These findings indicate that simple rules governing interactions between individuals can be sufficient to generate diverse and seemingly complex outcomes. Our results suggest that the central paradox of the evolution of cooperation is not that natural selection favors exploitative individuals but that the mechanistic basis of social behavior is largely unknown.
The localization of mRNAs encoding secretome proteins to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a conserved mechanism that facilitates spatial and temporal control of protein synthesis. The cis-acting RNA sequence motif SECReTE (secretion-enhancing cis regulatory targeting element) was found to be enriched in mRNAs encoding secretome proteins in eukaryotes. SECReTE consists of ≥10 consecutive nucleotide triplet repeats enriched in pyrimidine. SECReTE is enriched in mRNAs encoding secretome proteins in all organisms examined, from prokaryotes to both lower and higher eukaryotes. SECReTE is not dependent on the encoded signal sequence or transmembrane domain. SECReTE is not a random consequence of codon usage. SECReTE is important, not only to understand how mRNAs may reach the ER in eukaryotes, but may have practical applications in the field of biotechnology.
Dengue, Zika, and chikungunya are severe mosquito-borne infectious diseases that are of growing concern in tropical and sub-tropical regions. Aedes aegypti is a highly successful invasive species that has colonized most tropical and subtropical regions. The ancestor of the domestic form of A. aegypti is a zoophilic sub-species called formosus. It is likely from sub-Saharan Africa, where it can still be found, and these mosquitoes are now found in the Americas. A. aegypti can be invasive in many regions, and the yellow fever mosquito is a major vector for yellow fever, which is re-emerging in many regions. A. aegypti is also a vector for several other diseases, including dengue, Zika, and chikungunya. In 2013, breeding populations of A. aegypti were first reported in California. The objectives of expanding the genetic analyses of CA A. aegypti were to examine additional samples from Northern and Southern CA, include more southern US populations for comparison, and genotype a subset of samples at 15,698 SNPs. The genetic data suggest that the founding events giving rise to the populations in both Northern and Southern CA likely occurred before they were first recognized in 2013 and 2014 respectively. The genetic data also suggest that the Northern CA population is genetically stable over time. The findings have implications for mosquito surveillance and vector control activities not only in California but also in other regions where the distribution of this invasive mosquito is expanding.
The Actinomycetales bacteria Rhodococcus opacus PD630 and Rhodococcus jostii RHA1 are bioconversion organisms that produce triacylglycerols (TAGs) from organic substrates. We performed a comparative analysis of the 9.27 Mb R. opacus PD630 genome to integrate a working model of prokaryotic oleaginy. We identified 261 candidate genes for the TAGs cycle and 261 genes for the catabolism of organic substrates. The results of a screen for growth on 190 compounds were used as a multi-genic test of the reconstruction, described in more detail below. Comparison of the catabolic screen, phylogenetic analysis, and metabolic product characterizations integrated a working model of prokaryotic oleaginy. The results were integrated into a working model of prokaryotic oleaginy. Rhodococcus species have developed a unique lipid biosynthesis system that involves the synthesis of uncommon straight-chain odd-carbon fatty acids. The TAGs cycle includes 261 candidate genes for the 1735 metabolic reactions. Rhodococcus opacus PD630 contained 71 of the 12 enzymatic reactions implicated in the TAGs cycle.
Oligonucleotide usage in prokaryotic genomes can be linked to properties such as codon usage, DNA base-stacking energy, and DNA structural conformation. Here, we examined the statistical information potential of different DNA 'word-sizes', explore how oligonucleotide frequencies differ in coding and non-coding regions, and investigate DNA composition and sequence patterns in prokaryotic organisms. We found that tetranucleotide frequencies carried considerable genomic information potential, and were therefore used in all statistical tests based on oligonucleotide usage. The statistical tests included oligonucleotide usage deviation from mean (OUD, a measure of oligonucleotide frequency variations in genomes), and oligonucleotide usage variance from expected (OUV, a measure of randomness or bias). These tests were used to examine how tetranucleotide frequencies fluctuate within chromosomes and how tetranucleotide distributions differed from random tetranucleotide frequencies calculated by mean genomic nucleotide frequencies. Oligonucleotide usage variance in coding regions was found to be even more strongly correlated with global GC content than coding regions. Predicted tetranucleotide usage based on genomic nucleotide frequencies was used to estimate variance in GC content within genomes. Since intrinsic tetranucleotide usage variance predictions were only based on nucleotide frequencies, these values were directly associated with fluctuations in local GC content obtained by comparing 40 kbp sliding windows with global (mean) GC content. We found that the more GC rich a genome is, the less variation of nucleotide frequencies are found in the non-coding regions, while the opposite is true for AT rich genomes.
Gene targeting is a powerful tool for studying gene function and for creating animal models of human disease. However, unintended consequences of gene targeting in mouse models have not been thoroughly studied, but they include off-target effects that need to be further analyzed. Here, we evaluate targeted and neighboring gene expression in mouse tissues from 44 homozygous mutants using RNA-seq. We found that 59% of the targeted genes had a down-regulated gene within 500 kb of the targeted gene, while 47% of the targeted genes had an up-regulated gene within 500 kb of the targeted gene. Of note, there were 29 deletion alleles (DEL) with 97% confirmation of targeting by RNA-seq, while 15 gene trap mutants (TRAP) with 47% confirmation of targeting by RNA-seq. Local effects of targeting were more frequent in DEL mutants than in TRAP mutants. The frequency of up- or down-regulated genes flanking DEL targets was similar to the frequency of up- or down-regulated genes flanking TRAP targets. The frequency of up-regulated genes flanking DEL targets was 77% 3’ of the targeted gene, while the frequency of down-regulated genes flanking DEL targets was 59% 5’ of the targeted gene. We hypothesize that the local transcriptional dysregulation, was due to the targeting event and not a compensatory change due to the loss of targeted gene product.
Dmrt1 is a key regulator of vertebrate gonad development, acting as a master sex-determining gene in fish. In medaka, Dmrt1 acts as a sex-determining gene with a tightly controlled gonadal expression pattern. Here, we show that a 11-nucleotide cis-regulatory sequence in the 3′ UTR of medaka dmrt1bY (D3U-box) confers RNA stability in germ cells of the developing embryonic gonad. The D3U-box is targeted by two evolutionary conserved RNA binding proteins, Oryzias latipes CUG-binding protein (Ol-cug-bp) and Oryzias latipes Bicoid Stability Factor (Ol-bsf), with antagonizing properties. We demonstrate that Ol-bsf and Ol-cug-bp1/2 specifically bind to the D3U-box and either promote or inhibit RNA stability in germ cells, respectively. In addition, we find that the D3U-box is also targeted by other germ cell transcripts, which are similarly regulated by Ol-bsf and Ol-cug-bp1/2. Altogether, we show that the D3U-box is a target for two RNA binding proteins that differentially regulate the abundance of D3U-box containing transcripts in germ cells.
Mosquitoes lay their eggs in the aquatic milieu. Eggshells of mosquitoes of the genera Anopheles, Culex and Aedes present a transparent exochorion and a pigmented serosal cuticle. The serosal cuticle is fundamental for the establishment of an efficient egg resistance to desiccation (ERD). We investigated the relationship between eggshell pigmentation and ERD in three mosquito species. The eggshell of Aedes aegypti, the most important vector of diseases such as yellow fever, dengue and chikungunya, is darker than that of the other species tested. In the mosquito An. quadrimaculatus, a strain with a golden cuticle, eggshell pigmentation is reduced and the serosal cuticle is not functional. The egg viability outside the water is much higher in mosquitoes with darker eggshells than in those with lighter ones. In addition, serosal cuticle formation considerably reduces water flow through the eggshell, allowing egg survival outside the water. The influence of pigmentation on egg water balance is relevant to understanding the evolutionary history of insect egg coloration and considering species fitness and novel approaches for vector or pest insect control.
Sub-Saharan Africa represents only 10% of the world's population but more than 62% of the world's HIV/AIDS cases. The hypothesis that parasitic worm infections may increase susceptibility to HIV-1 has never been prospectively tested. To address this question, we infected Chinese-origin adult female rhesus macaques with Schistosoma mansoni and then exposed them intrarectally to a sub-infectious dose of the recently described R5-tropic SHIV-C, SHIV-1157ipd3N4. The minimal infectious dose for parasite-free animals was 1 ml of virus stock diluted 1∶50, while the minimal infectious dose for animals with schistosomiasis was 1 ml of virus stock diluted 1∶300; all 3 animals exposed to this dose became systemically infected. The AID50 of SHIV-C was 17-fold lower in animals with schistosomiasis compared to parasite-free animals. Peak vRNA loads and single time point T-cell subsets were compared using the Wilcoxon rank-sum test. Control of helminth infections may be a public health intervention strategy to help decrease the spread of HIV-1 based on the findings.
The fundamental question in developmental biology regarding the reproducibility of embryonic development is how the multicellular system resists noise to acquire developmental reproducibility. We focused on vertebrate somitogenesis as a model system, as somites are repeatedly reproduced in a single embryo, making it an ideal system to study developmental reproducibility. We developed a computational model of ERK-mediated somitogenesis and simulated the step-like gradient distribution of ERK activity in the presomitic mesoderm and its posterior stepwise shift, leading to regular somite formation. The regularity of somite formation was maintained by the segmentation clock, which reduced the inherent somite irregularity caused by noise. Removing the clock from the model predicted that the stepwise shift of ERK activity occurs at irregular timing and distance, resulting in somite size variation. Live imaging of ERK activity in zebrafish embryos confirmed our model prediction about somite irregularity. We proposed a novel role of the segmentation clock in maintaining noise-resistant developmental reproducibility by reducing somite irregularity. Our results uncovered a novel mechanism of noise-resistant developmental reproducibility in somitogenesis and also proposed a novel concept for a clock-dependent mechanism of noise-resistant developmental reproducibility in somite formation.
Oligomerization is a key factor in the dynamics of many proteins. In this work, we investigate the role of interfacial interactions and overall packing topology in the dynamic features acquired in the oligomeric state. We compare the dynamics of monomeric and oligomeric enzymes from the allosteric amino acid kinase family, with different degrees of oligomerization. The examination of the low-frequency modes accessible to the monomeric and oligomeric states shows that the intrinsic dynamics of the monomeric units are preserved in the oligomeric states, but the assembly geometry of the subunits gives rise to new collective motions that are linked to the cooperative inhibition of hexameric N-acetyl-L-glutamate kinase by arginine and to the allosteric regulation of UMP kinases. The interfacial regions of the monomers are stiffened in the oligomeric state, while the inter-subunit contact topology is critical in defining the collective dynamics of the oligomer. This study sheds light on the mechanism of cooperative inhibition of hexameric N-acetyl-L-glutamate kinase by arginine and on the allosteric regulation of UMP kinases.
Understanding the role of humans in the dispersal of animal pathogens is essential for controlling them effectively. Here, we use newly developed Bayesian phylogeographic methods to investigate the spread of dog rabies virus in North Africa. We find that major geo-political boundaries acted as barriers to gene flow, leading to largely disconnected spatial dynamics in each country studied. Road distances were found to be better predictors of dog rabies virus movement than accessibility or raw geographical distance. Occasional long-distance and rapid spread of the virus was observed within each of the countries studied. The viral distribution of dog rabies virus in African dog populations indicates that human-mediated dispersal has played a major role in the maintenance of this important zoonotic pathogen. Our findings demonstrate the potential of phylogeographic methods to bridge the gap between phylodynamics and spatial epidemiology, allowing for a better understanding of the dynamics and determinants of pathogen spread.
The 2014 FIFA World Cup will be held in Brazil in June and July. A total of 2.5 million tickets will be sold and it is expected that between 300,000 and 600,000 supporters from countries outside Brazil will visit the games. Brazil has reported high transmission rates of dengue, the most common vector-borne disease in Brazil. We estimated the risk of dengue transmission during the World Cup using historical dengue surveillance data. We used two statistical models to estimate the risk of dengue: a percentile rank (PR) model and an Empirical Bayes (EB) model. We estimated the risk of dengue in game and basecamp cities for tourists and teams. We found that this risk was low but varying across locations. We estimated the number of symptomatic dengue cases expected among tourists and teams. Between 26 and 59 symptomatic dengue cases were estimated among tourists. None are expected among teams. We estimated that 4–5 and 38–70 symptomatic dengue cases would be expected among tourists if 100,000 or 800,000 visitors would attend the World Cup respectively. The actual number of cases can be as low as 4 or 5 with 100,000 visitors and as high as 38 or 70 with 800,000 visitors.
Increasing energy expenditure through brown adipocyte recruitment is a promising approach for the treatment of obesity. To combat obesity, it is necessary to understand the epigenetic mechanisms that regulate brown adipocyte differentiation. Here we profiled the transcriptomes and epigenomes of mouse multipotent mesenchymal stem cells committed to the brown lineage and mature brown adipocytes, and identified novel regulators of brown adipogenesis. We show that the kinase PIM1, the homeobox transcription factor SIX1, the transcription factor RREB1, and the homeobox transcription factor SOX13 are novel regulators of brown adipogenesis. We also show that the function of these factors is dependent on the p38 MAPK pathway. Finally, we show that the function of SOX13 is dependent on its genomic localization at the promoters of brown cell selective genes.
Paracoccidioidomycosis (PCM) is a neglected systemic fungal infection prevalent mostly in South America. Despite the significant progress in several areas of knowledge since it was described by Adolpho Lutz, in 1908, it still shows high rates of morbidity and mortality and low visibility. Serological tests are used for the diagnosis and follow-up of PCM. The gold standard of PCM diagnosis is the visualization of yeast cells with typical multiple budding aspect in a clinical sample or isolation of the fungus in culture medium. However, their performance is not routinely checked, in part due to the lack of external standards. Only an internal positive control is used, which in most centers is a patient's serum with a known positive titer. Moreover, the few attempts put forward to standardize the routine serological methods used in PCM patients have not succeeded. In this study, the performance of Brazilian reference centers for serological diagnosis was compared. Each center provided 30 sera of PCM patients and applied its own antigen preparation and serological routine test to the sera from the other five centers. The titers of PCM patients' sera were transformed into scores. The titers were transformed into scores of 0 (negative), 1 (healing titers), 2 (active disease, low titers), and 3 (active disease, high titers) according to each center's criteria. The titers were transformed into scores of 0 (negative), 1 (healing titers), 2 (active disease, low titers), and 3 (active disease, high titers) according to each center's criteria. The titers were transformed into scores of 0 (negative), 1 (healing titers), 2 (active disease, low titers), and 3 (active disease, high titers) according to each center's criteria. The titers were transformed into scores of 0 (negative), 1 (healing titers), 2 (active disease, low titers), and 3 (active disease, high titers) according to each center's criteria. All centers exhibited a high rate of “major” discordances, with an average of 31 (20%) discordant scores. A high rate of major discordances was also found, with an average of 14.8 sera out of 30 presenting a discordance with at least one other center. Centers that used counterimmunoelectrophoresis (CIE) and a pool of isolates for antigen preparation performed better. The inconsistencies can lead to conflicting information regarding the patients' treatment. The author suggests that renewed efforts should be promoted to improve the standardization of the serological diagnosis of PCM.
Hookworm-related cutaneous larva migrans (CLM) is a tropical skin disease caused by the migration of animal hookworm larvae in the epidermis. CLM is a common disease in resource-poor communities in tropical regions of the world. The severity of the disease correlates with the number of affected body areas and the presence of lesions on visible areas of the skin. The clinical course of CLM is characterized by itching and inflammation. The impact of CLM on life quality in resource-poor communities has not been studied previously. In a study carried out in resource-poor communities in Manaus, Brazil, we investigated the impact of CLM on life quality using a modified version of the Dermatology Life Quality Index (mDLQI). The mDLQI scores were correlated with the severity of the infection and the number of affected body areas. In a prospective study, 23 patients with CLM were treated with ivermectin. Two and four weeks after treatment, the patients were re-examined and the mDLQI was determined again. A total of 91 patients were included in the study. 94.5% of the patients showed a reduction of skin disease-associated life quality at the time of diagnosis. The majority of the patients (51.6%) showed a moderate life quality impairment. The degree of skin disease-associated life quality impairment correlated strongly with the severity of the infection (rho = 0.76; p<0.001) and the number of affected body areas (rho = 0.30; p = 0.004). The most frequent restrictions in skin disease-associated life quality reported by the patients were intense pruritus, sleep disturbance (due to itching), and feelings of shame. No differences in skin disease-associated life quality restrictions were observed between boys and girls or men and women. After treatment with ivermectin, the degree of skin disease-associated life quality impairment significantly decreased two weeks after treatment (p<0.001) and was completely resolved four weeks after treatment (p<0.001). The results of this study indicate that CLM impairs the physical and mental wellbeing as well as social interaction of patients in a setting where skin disease-associated life quality is generally low.
Zoonotic Visceral leishmaniasis (ZVL) is a neglected tropical disease that presents a complex dynamic influenced by socioeconomic factors such as poverty and limited access to health services as well as specific biological factors related to vector and host ecology parameters as well as natural interactions between etiological agents, hosts and vectors. In Latin America the need to clarify some key aspects of leishmaniasis transmission has been emphasized. In Brazil, the domestic dog (Canis familiaris) constitutes the main reservoir in urban areas. In this study we evaluated the bionomic parameters of a population of the Lu. longipalpis complex (S)-9-methylgermacrene-B) in an urban area of Panorama municipality, located in the western region of São Paulo state, Brazil. The population was evaluated using the mark-release-recapture method. The recapture rates within a certain distance from the release point were higher within 100 meters of the release point. The estimated daily survival rates for female sand flies varied between 0.69 and 0.89. The minimum duration observed for the gonotrophic cycle was five days. The absolute population sizes of female and male sand flies ranged from 900 to 4,857 females and from 2,882 to 9,543 males. The bionomic parameters evaluated in the study provide important data for understanding ZVL dynamics and evaluating the implementation of prevention and control measures.
Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) colonizes the intestinal epithelium and establishes an apical surface-based niche. EPEC employs a type three secretion system (TTSS) to inject into host cells a variety of effector proteins, which are believed to be responsible for the intimate adhesion of the pathogen to the host cells. In this work we show that the host epithelial cells can detect the active, pore forming, TTSS of EPEC and trigger a novel signaling pathway, leading to NF-κB activation. This activation is TTSS-dependent, but does not involve TLRs or Nod1/2. The data imply that the epithelial cells have the capacity to sense the EPEC TTSS and activate NF-κB in response. Furthermore, EPEC counteracts the activation of NF-κB in infected cells by delivering anti-NF-κB effectors into the infected cells. These results imply that the primary niche of infecting EPEC is the apical surface of intestinal epithelial cells.
The RNA recognition motif (RRM) is the most common RNA binding domain across eukaryotic proteins. The specificity of RRMs is determined by their interactions with RNA. The RRM of Rbfox protein is able to bind with high specificity to a target RNA sequence. Here, we engineered the RRM of Rbfox to achieve specific targeting of oncogenic miRNA 21. We used molecular dynamics simulations to predict the structural determinants of the Rbfox*•pre-miR20b* complex, and to identify mutations that would further improve the specificity of the engineered protein. We used free-energy calculations to investigate the effects of the mutations on the binding affinity and selectivity. We show that the simulations predict the structural determinants of the engineered complex with good accuracy. We also predict that a new mutation, S151T, would increase the affinity and selectivity of the engineered protein for the target pre-miR20b sequence.
Schistosomes are flatworm parasites that cause schistosomiasis. Serine proteases are recognized as antigens during host infection. Here, we describe a novel serine protease, SmSP2, that is expressed in the surface tegument of Schistosoma mansoni adult worms. SmSP2 is a multi-domain protein consisting of an N-terminal region, a thrombospondin-1 type 1 repeat (TSR-1) domain and a S1 family serine protease domain. The protease domain of SmSP2 possesses a trypsin-like endopeptidase mode of action and cleaves several proteins and peptides that are involved in host proteolytic cascades, i.e., blood coagulation, fibrinolysis and blood pressure regulation. SmSP2 is released into the host environment and may contribute to the survival of the parasite by manipulating host vasodilatation and fibrinolysis.
Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is the leading cause of morbidity in immune-compromised patients. CMV infection induces a robust γδ T cell response in humans, but its role in protection from CMV infection is unknown. We investigated the role of γδ T cells in protection against MCMV infection in mice. In mice, MCMV-induced γδ T cell response was sufficient to protect against MCMV infection and control organ damage, and was associated with a transient γδ T cell increase in the liver, and a delayed but strong and persistent expansion of γδ T cells in the lungs. The γδ T cell response was associated with a protective role in organs, and the absence of NK cells did not impair this protective role. These results suggest that γδ T cells may be a promising target for the prevention or treatment of CMV infection in immunocompromised patients.
ICPs (inhibitors of cysteine proteases) are highly conserved proteins in Plasmodium parasites. The role of ICPs in the life cycle of Plasmodium parasites is not well understood. Here, we generated stage-specific knockout parasites and investigated the role of PbICP (Plasmodium berghei inhibitor of cysteine proteases) in the life cycle of the parasite. PbICP was expressed in all stages of the Plasmodium berghei life cycle. PbICPKO parasites were unable to invade hepatocytes and to develop to the oocyst stage. PbICPKO sporozoites exhibited a strong attenuation of gliding motility and were incapable of invading hepatocytes. In addition, PbICPKO parasites were not able to develop to the oocyst stage in vitro. PbICPKO parasites were unable to form merosomes, indicating that PbICP is essential for parasite egress from the host cell. PbICPKO parasites were also incapable of transmigrating through host cells. The phenotype of PbICPKO parasites was completely reversed by expression of a PbICP-GFP fusion protein. The phenotype of PbICPKO parasites was therefore entirely due to the lack of PbICP. Our results indicate that PbICP is an essential factor in gliding motility and host cell invasion and, thus, it plays an important role in the life cycle of Plasmodium parasites.
The histone variant H2A.Z is essential for embryonic development and plays a role in controlling gene expression programs in embryonic stem cells (ESCs). Here we report that the divergent residues in the H2A.Z acidic patch domain are critical for proper incorporation and enrichment at target promoters during ESC differentiation. We found that H2A.ZAP3, a mutant variant with replacement of the divergent residues with those of H2A, displayed reduced enrichment at target promoters and was less tightly associated with chromatin compared to H2A.ZWT. This resulted in reduced expression of bivalent genes and increased levels of the repressive chromatin mark H3K27me3 at H2A.ZAP3 target genes. Chromatin dynamics analyses showed that H2A.ZAP3 was more dynamic compared to H2A.ZWT, consistent with the idea that the mutant variant is incorporated more loosely into chromatin. Moreover, treatment with the transcriptional inhibitor flavopiridol partially restored H2A.ZAP3 enrichment and occupancy at target genes, suggesting proper incorporation and association with chromatin. Collectively, our data suggest that the divergent residues in the H2A.Z acidic patch domain are critical for proper incorporation and enrichment at target promoters during ESC differentiation.
The colon crypts are monoclonal, and their maintenance during adulthood is due to asymmetric cell divisions. The crypts are clustered separately from hematopoietic cells and other progenitors, suggesting that the colon is constituted of few progenitors. In this study, we validated the reliability of cell lineage reconstruction in the mouse colon without the use of stem cell markers. The method was applied to explore different aspects of stem cell dynamics in the mouse colon without the use of stem cell markers. Our findings confirm that colon crypts are monoclonal and that monoclonal conversion plays a major role in their maintenance throughout adulthood. We also found that colon crypts are clustered separately from hematopoietic cells and other progenitors, suggesting that the colon is constituted of few progenitors. Our study demonstrates the reliability of cell lineage reconstruction for studying stem cell dynamics.
Understanding the dynamics of ART-induced reductions in viral RNA levels is critical to the development of successful eradication strategies. In this study, we characterized the systemic impact of ART in BLT humanized mice and evaluated the effects of antiretroviral drug penetration and activity on HIV production in multiple organs. We found that antiretroviral drug penetration into different organs throughout the body was sufficient to reduce the number of cells producing HIV, as well as cell-associated vRNA levels, during ART. However, HIV persists during ART in every organ analyzed. We also demonstrated that targeted killing of persisting HIV producing cells during ART profoundly depleted systemically infected cells compared to ART alone. These findings provide proof-of-concept for targeted cytotoxic therapies as a successful complement to ART for the depletion of persisting HIV infected cells.
Rapid diagnosis of dengue can assist patient triage and management. Dengue viral protein, NS1, represents a new approach to dengue diagnosis. We compared the sensitivity and specificity of two commercial NS1 assays, the Platelia ELISA and a lateral flow rapid test (NS1-LFRT), in the context of different viral serotypes, viral burdens and clinical presentations in Vietnamese patients. The Platelia ELISA was modestly more sensitive (82%) than the NS1 LFRT (72%) in confirmed dengue cases. Both ELISA and LFRT assays were more sensitive for primary than secondary dengue. The presence of measurable DENV-reactive IgG in the test sample was associated with a significantly lower rate of NS1 detection in both assays. NS1 positivity was associated with a significantly higher viraemia compared to NS1-negative samples. The specificities of the Platelia and NS1 LFRT were 100%. NS1 assays deserve inclusion in the diagnostic evaluation of dengue patients. Due consideration should be given to the limitations of NS1 assays for patients who present late in their illness. The presence of measurable DENV-reactive IgM in the test sample was associated with a lesser extent of NS1 detection in both assays.
Rabies is a significant cause of human mortality, especially in children. Mass dog vaccination campaigns are the single most effective strategy to eliminate rabies amongst humans and dogs. Static point (SP) vaccination campaigns refer to a method of vaccination where a fixed location is designated for administering free rabies vaccinations to dogs. However, achieving high vaccination coverage using SPs is challenging in low resource settings due to logistical and economic constraints. We conducted a city-wide vaccination campaign in Blantyre, Malawi in 2016. We used a combination of GIS and household questionnaire type data to investigate the barriers to attendance at SPs. Our findings show that distance from the household played an important part in SP attendance. Specifically, our regression model showed that for every km closer the odds that the dog was taken to a SP for vaccination were 3.3 times higher. Distance was also one of the main reasons for not attending SPs most commonly quoted by the owners (17%). Our study also found that dogs from areas with higher proportions of people living in poverty are more likely to be presented for vaccination. Young age was also reported by 9% of the owners as a reason for not bringing a dog to a SP. Puppies less than three months old are often excluded from vaccination campaigns, either due to the misconception that they cannot mount an immune response or because it would require administration of the vaccine off-label. This important issue needs to be addressed through improved advertising and education in order to increase vaccination coverage by ensuring that puppies as well as adult dogs are presented to static vaccination points. Another interesting finding was the relationship between the reported dog confinement level and SP attendance. We found that compared to dogs who always roamed, dogs reported as never roaming were less likely to be taken to a SP. This might be because people believe that if dogs are not allowed to roam, they are not at risk of rabies. While this might be true for dogs that are kept in a protected area, many dogs will just be kept on a leash or in a garden where other dogs have access to and are therefore at risk of contracting rabies. This is another important issue to be raised during rabies education sessions and vaccination campaign advertisement. We also found that a lack of awareness of the vaccination programme was important despite high local profile within the local media, communities and schools. SP vaccination stations were advertised using posters and local radio during the weeks preceding the campaign and announced using a loud speaker in the communities around each station in the days before the actual vaccinating teams arrived at the SPs. Despite these efforts, the most common reason for not attending a SP quoted by the owners (27%) was that they did not know about it. In fact, people further away from SP were less likely to be aware of the vaccination campaign. Promotion of a vaccination campaign is massively important and indeed being unaware was one of the most commonly quoted reasons for failure to attend a vaccination SP in other developing countries including Chad [16, 17], Mali [14], Tanzania [18] and Peru [15]. Timely and accurate provision of information about upcoming SP vaccination stations is likely to increase participation at SPs, and might therefore be cost-effective for future campaigns to invest a greater proportion of resources on campaign advertisement and promotion making sure they cover the area of interest homogeneously.
Tsetse flies are the vector of the African trypanosomes that cause sleeping sickness in humans and animals. Tsetse salivary glands (SG) are the site where the parasites acquire the necessary nutrients to complete their development and are transmitted to mammalian hosts. Understanding tsetse-trypanosome interactions in the SG is essential to develop new methods for disease control. Here, we used RNA-seq to compare the transcriptome of the tsetse SG from infected flies to that of the same parasite strain in murine blood. Our data indicate that parasite infections drastically reduce levels of the major saliva proteins, and that these proteins are also drastically reduced in the mammalian host. In addition, we show that infection with the parasite in the SG results in a drastic increase in the levels of genes that are involved in immunity, stress tolerance, and protein synthesis. This suggests that the infection triggers a stress response that leads to increased cell growth and development in the glands. Our transcriptome and protein data also indicate that the parasite infection results in a shift from an amino acid-based metabolism in the SG to one based on glucose utilization in the mammalian host. This suggests that parasite infection induces changes in the tsetse's metabolism that are necessary for parasite survival in the mammalian host. Our data also indicate that the parasite transcriptome in the SG and the BSF transcriptome in the mammalian host are drastically different, reflecting the different immune and nutritional environments of the two hosts. Our findings provide a foundation for understanding the molecular aspects of the tsetse-trypanosome interactions and provide a basis for further investigations on the parasite-host interactions at this critical developmental stage.
Escovopsis and Leishmania donovani are parasites that infect ants and humans, respectively. Actinobacteria associated with attine ants were screened for antifungal and antiprotozoal activity. The antifungal compounds mer-A2026B, piericidin-A1, and nigericin were isolated from Streptomyces sp. ICBG292, while dinactin was isolated from Streptomyces puniceus ICBG378. Dinactin and nigericin were more active than miltefosine against Leishmania donovani intracellular amastigotes. Compounds 1 and 2 were also isolated from Streptomyces sp. ICBG233 associated to workers of Atta sexdens. These compounds were also active against Leishmania donovani. The results suggest that actinobacteria associated with attine ants can be used as a source of antileishmanial compounds.
African trypanosomes can undergo their complete morphological life cycle in the tsetse fly vector, with mating being a non-obligatory part. However, the population genetics of the human infective sub-species, Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense, has been controversial. We have used microsatellite markers to determine allelic variation and multilocus genotypes from parasites isolated from three distinct foci of disease in East Africa, two in Uganda, and one in Malawi. The Ugandan populations were genetically distinct and showed little or no evidence of mating, whereas the Malawi population was genetically diverse and showed evidence of frequent genetic exchange. Our findings suggest that T. b. rhodesiense can undergo genetic exchange in the field in Malawi, in contrast to previous studies that have described T. b. rhodesiense as a genetically homogeneous variant of T. b. brucei.
The spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) rule can selectively strengthen synaptic connections between neurons based on their relative timing. STDP has been observed in the auditory brainstem, where it is thought to be responsible for the ability of the barn owl to localize sound sources in space. It is not known, however, how STDP leads to the selective potentiation of recurrent connections with specific axonal delays during oscillatory activity. We used analytical and numerical models to investigate this. We found that the axonal delay profile of recurrent connections in the network was changed by STDP in a way that depended on the input frequency and the axonal and dendritic delays. We showed that this delay selection mechanism can lead to the selective response of the network to the input frequency. We extended the model to include multiple groups of neurons, each receiving inputs from different groups, and found that the network response was selective to the time lag between the groups. Our results expand the understanding of axonal delay selection in recurrent networks.
Systemic insecticides have been used in dogs to prevent human cases of Zoonotic Visceral Leishmaniasis. However, currently there are no systemic insecticides registered against zoo-anthropophilic pool blood feeding phlebotomine flies in dogs. Mathematical models have been used to describe L. infantum transmission dynamics in dogs and to evaluate the efficacy of different control strategies. We used a parsimonious deterministic mathematical model to evaluate the efficacy of community-wide use of systemic insecticides in dogs as a strategy to reduce the number of human infections with L. infantum causing ZVL cases in an endemic area. The model was used to simulate different intervention scenarios and calculated the number of infected dogs in the population for each scenario. The minimum requirements of the systemic insecticide (efficacy and duration) and the intervention (dog treatment coverage) to significantly reduce L. infantum infections in humans were evaluated. A systemic insecticide with an initial efficacy of 80% and 6.5 months above 65% efficacy would require a coverage of 60% to reduce the human infection incidence by 50%. Different combinations of insecticide efficacy, duration and coverage could reach similar impact.
The invasion of erythrocytes by Plasmodium merozoites requires specific interactions between host receptors and parasite ligands. Here, we describe the identification of physiologically relevant external signals that trigger the regulated secretion of microneme and rhoptry proteins to the merozoite surface during erythrocyte invasion. P. falciparum merozoites isolated in intracellular ionic conditions mimicking those found in blood plasma are exposed to extracellular ionic conditions and release microneme proteins to the merozoite surface. The physiologically relevant external signals that trigger the secretion of microneme proteins are not known. We demonstrate that exposure of P. falciparum merozoites to low potassium ion concentrations leads to a rise in cytosolic calcium levels. Treatment of merozoites with phospholipase C inhibitor U73122 blocks the secretion of microneme proteins and inhibits erythrocyte invasion. The rise in cytosolic calcium levels in P. falciparum merozoites triggered by exposure to low potassium ion concentrations appears to be triggered by release of calcium from intracellular stores. The sequence of secretion events and the external signals that trigger release of microneme proteins remain to be identified.
Tumor vessels are often leaky and heterogeneous. This results in poor drug delivery to tumor cells. Normalization of vasculature, a state in which vessels are less leaky and more functional, can improve drug delivery. Here, we propose a mathematical model to investigate the benefits of vasculature normalization in the delivery of large drugs. The model includes tumor growth, angiogenesis, and interstitial fluid pressure (IFP). Antiangiogenic agents and cytotoxic nanoparticles are administered through heterogeneous tumor vessels that resemble tumor vasculature. The model incorporates tumor growth, angiogenesis, and interstitial fluid pressure (IFP). Drug delivery is evaluated by the amount of drugs that extravasate from vessels. We show that in combination therapy with antiangiogenic agents and chemotherapy, total drug extravasation increases when antiangiogenic agents are applied concurrently. This is because the decrease in vessel density and leakiness due to antiangiogenic agents increases the pressure difference between tumor and vessels, restoring transvascular pressure gradients. In addition, liposome extravasation in the interior region of tumor increases when antiangiogenic agents are applied concurrently, enabling the delivery of drugs to deeper regions of the tumor.
Myeloid dendritic cells (DCs) are critical to the acquisition of antigen and to the initiation of adaptive immune responses. HIV-1, in turn, has evolved to exploit DC biology to facilitate its dissemination within the infected host. DC-mediated HIV-1 trans infection, dependent on the type I interferon (IFN) signaling pathway, has been hypothesized to provide a novel mechanism of parasitization. Here, we show that HIV-1 capture by DCs is dependent on the type I IFN-inducible sialic acid-binding immunoglobulin-like lectin, CD169. In addition, we demonstrate that CD169 is the DC receptor that mediates HIV-1 capture and trans infection in a glycosphingolipid (GSL)-dependent manner. Furthermore, we show that depletion of GSLs from virus particles, or neutralization of CD169 function, can attenuate DC-mediated HIV-1 capture and trans infection. Finally, we demonstrate that exogenous expression of CD169 on human or murine DCs can rescue HIV-1-deficient virus capture and trans infection. Our findings describe a novel mechanism of pathogen parasitization, involving the interaction between GM3 and CD169, for DC-dependent HIV-1 dissemination.
The interactions between chondrocytes and perichondrium control the timing of skeletal development in zebrafish. In a screen for mutations in cartilage matrix production, we identified mutations in fam20b and xylt1, which encode glycosaminoglycan (GAG) synthesis enzymes. Fam20b and xylt1 mutants had reduced chondrocyte matrix production and premature chondrocyte maturation, which resulted in increased perichondrial bone formation. Ultrastructural analyses revealed premature chondrocyte hypertrophy in xylt1 mutants. Our findings suggest that Fam20b and Xylt1 play distinct roles in the GAG synthesis pathway, with Fam20b promoting GAG synthesis and Xylt1 regulating its final step. Our mutant fish provide a vertebrate model for understanding the role of PG synthesis in skeletal development, and also may be useful for studying human skeletal diseases, such as Raine syndrome, which are caused by defects in GAG synthesis.
Severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome (SFTS) is an emerging infectious disease caused by the SFTS virus (SFTSV). The virus has been detected in ticks and mammals in the endemic area of SFTS in China. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive survey to elucidate the ecology of SFTSV in ticks and small wild mammals in the SFTS endemic area. SFTSV-RNA was detected in both feeding and questing Haemaphysalis longicornis and Haemaphysalis flava, and viral RNA was also detected in wild mammals and birds captured during the tick-feeding and off-tick-feeding seasons. Two live SFTSV strains were isolated from spleens of two Erinaceus europaeus captured during the off-tick-feeding season, which suggests a possibility of a prolonged or persistent infection in these wild animals. Antibodies against SFTSV were detected in two migratory bird species Anser cygnoides and Streptopelia chinensis. These findings provide novel insights into SFTSV ecology, reservoir hosts, and transmission, which can help develop new measures in preventing its rapid spread both regionally and globally.
Lar dsDNA viruses are capable of causing a profound alteration of the host transcriptome and metabolome. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying host-virus arms race are largely unknown, especially in the marine environment. Here, we used single-cell transcriptomics to track host and virus gene expression in a marine algal virus model system. We found that heterogeneity in viral expression levels and infection states were observed among individual cells. Single-cell analysis revealed an early host transcriptional response prior to viral gene expression and revealed a unique expression profile of metabolic genes in resistant cells during viral infection. The differential expression of host metabolic genes in resistant and susceptible cells may be a basis for discerning between viral resistant and susceptible cells within heterogeneous populations in the marine environment. Our results demonstrate that examining host and virus gene expression profiles at the single cell resolution allows to infer the temporal dynamic of the infection process, thereby it serves as an attractive approach to decipher the molecular mechanism underlying host-virus interaction.
The guilt-by-association principle states that a gene’s function is influenced by its network context. However, the impact of context-specific changes in biological networks on gene functions remains largely unexplored. We present a novel approach to characterize network-induced potential functional changes in breast cancer. We leverage the principle of guilt-by-association to infer sample-specific functions of a gene based on its network neighborhood. We then assess whether a function has gained or lost significance in cancer relative to normal tissues. We find that a significant fraction of functions are gained or lost in cancer, and this change in function is associated with cancer-specific mutations and deletions. Moreover, we find that the diffusion-based functional profiles are more predictive of patient survival and subtypes of breast cancer compared to the traditional approach based solely on functional annotations.
The overall hypothesis is that host population immunity directed at multiple antigens will influence the prevalence, diversity, and evolution of influenza A virus (IAV) in avian populations. MALLARD ducks (Anas platyrhynchos) were pre-challenged with an H3N8 low-pathogenic IAV. Subsequently, ducks were re-challenged with different IAV subtypes. The results indicate that immunity to the initial H3N8 infection provided partial protection against subsequent heterologous infections. The boost in the H3 antibody titer suggests original antigenic sin or antigenic seniority, indicating a putative strategy of virus evasion. The results provide insights into within-host IAV complex interactions as drivers of IAV antigenic diversity, which could allow the circulation of multiple subtypes in wild ducks.
Horizontal gene transfer mediated by plasmids plays an important role in the evolution of bacterial species, as well as in the dissemination of antibiotic resistance and pathogenicity determinants. Although many plasmids present in Gram-positive bacteria have been studied, little is known about the regulation of conjugation genes present on these plasmids. Here we report the regulatory mechanism of the conjugation genes of the native Bacillus subtilis plasmid pLS20. We show that the conjugation genes of pLS20 are not induced by recipient-produced pheromones, but are activated by an anti-repressor encoded by the rap-phr-encoded protein RapLS20. The activity of RapLS20 is inhibited by a signaling peptide encoded by the rap-phr-encoded protein phrLS20. Our results indicate that conjugation genes of pLS20 are regulated by a quorum sensing mechanism in which a signaling peptide regulates the activity of RapLS20, which in turn regulates the activity of the anti-repressor.
The mosquito Aedes aegypti is the primary vector of dengue virus (DENV). We performed genome-wide transcriptome analyses in A. aegypti susceptible and refractory strains at two critical early periods after challenging them with DENV. We identified a total of 2,454 DENV responsive genes that interacted in well-defined patterns that distinguish the two response phenotypes. The observed transcriptional network establishes global cross-talk among the DENV response genes that may subsequently trigger the appropriate host actions at the critical early time points following exposure to and infection by DENV. Our data revealed that 293 genes were responsive in both susceptible and refractory strains, whereas most DENV responsive genes had expression patterns that were specific to either susceptible or refractory genotypes. This indicated that A. aegypti may utilize more complex defense mechanisms compared to those required to host the virus.
Loiasis is endemic in the rainforest zone of west and central Africa, particularly in Cameroon, Gabon, Republic of Congo, and Democratic Republic of the Congo. Repeated treatments with ivermectin are delivered using the annual community-directed treatment with ivermectin (CDTI) approach. The objective of the cross-sectional study was to explore the effects of several rounds of CDTI on parasitological indicators of loiasis. The study was conducted in the East, Northwest, and Southwest 2 CDTI projects of Cameroon. A total of 3,684 individuals were recruited from 36 communities of the 3 CDTI project sites, while 900 individuals were recruited from the 9 non-CDTI communities. The study results indicated that over 80% of adult respondents interviewed had participated in the ivermectin MDA at least once, although >50% of these individuals were low compliers (had taken ivermectin < 5 times). In the areas under MDA, no child was found to have a high or very high mf load. After 9 to 14 years of CDTI in onchocerciasis-loiasis co-endemic areas in Cameroon, the prevalence and intensity of loiasis have decreased, particularly in those areas that had a higher initial endemicity. One striking observation of this study is the fact that despite the net reduction/difference in the prevalence and intensity of infection in these communities under 9–14 years of CDTI, the proportion of people still harbouring L. loa infection was quite substantial.
Replication and transcription are coupled to preserve genome integrity. The bias towards co-orientation of replication and transcription is conserved across many bacteria. Here we engineered B. subtilis strains with the co-orientation bias reversed over either an extensive segment of the genome or at a localized rRNA operon, and examined the consequences on replication and genome integrity. We found that replication is significantly slowed in the inverted region, and that the effect is dependent on growth medium. In particular, the inversion of the rRNA operons results in disruption of replication elongation, induction of the DNA damage response, and cell death. We propose that avoiding conflict between replication and transcription is a driving force in the evolution of co-orientation of replication and transcription.
Schistosomiasis is the most significant helminthic disease in terms of morbidity and mortality. To accelerate discovery of intervention targets for schistosomiasis and to provide exploitable insights into the parasite biology and pathogenesis, facile manipulation of parasites using lentiviruses is needed. Here we demonstrate that infection of Schistosoma mansoni with pseudotyped human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 leads to attachment of virions, reverse transcription of the RNA genome of HIV-1, and integration of the provirus into the genome of the blood fluke. This report characterizes the integration of HIV-1 provirus within the chromosomes of Schistosoma mansoni. It also provides, to our knowledge, the first demonstration of integration of HIV-1 into the genome of an invertebrate.
Leptospirosis is caused by pathogenic Leptospira spp. and is considered to be the world's most widespread zoonotic disease. Asymptomatic reservoir hosts are critical for disease spread. Pathogenic Leptospira spp. colonize the kidney of reservoir hosts, but the mechanisms of leptospire establishment within the kidney remain poorly understood. We investigated the presence of post-translational modifications (PTMs) within the major leptospiral protein LipL32. We show that PTMs, including acetylation or tri-methylation of lysine residues within multiple LipL32 peptides, occur solely on in vivo-derived LipL32. Four PTMs occurred in regions of LipL32 previously identified as B cell epitopes, and one PTM decreased epitope recognition by human leptospirosis serum. This study provides the first in vivo proteomic investigation of post-translational modifications of a major leptospiral lipoprotein and provides insight into the potential functional consequences of such modifications.
The main goal of new T cell vaccines is to generate large populations of pathogen-specific long-lived effector memory CD8 T cells. However, the factors that govern the long-term maintenance of T cell memory, particularly effector memory, have not been fully elucidated. Here, we investigate how the order in which infections are acquired affects the host immune response. We show that two inflating memory populations from two different pathogens can develop simultaneously and that the presence of large pre-existing inflating T cell populations does not impact upon the development of the new inflating responses. In contrast, acute infection with a mouse cytomegalovirus (MCMV) causes depletion of the pre-existing inflating population of CD8 T cells. However, the depleted population can be rapidly recovered upon boosting with Ad-lacZ, a non-replicative adenovirus vector expressing the β-galactosidase gene. In addition, acute MCMV infection also causes depletion of the conventional memory subset and the inflating population does not impact upon the recovery of the conventional memory subset. These results suggest that the host is able to support multiple populations of epitope-specific T cells which may develop at different periods of time without any evident cost to the size of the existing or the newly generated effector memory population.
Sexual dimorphisms in trait expression refer to differences in physical traits between males and females of a species. Exaggerated sexually selected traits are usually male-specific and influenced by nutrition sensitivity. Developmental mechanisms generating sex-specific trait growth and nutrition-dependent phenotypic plasticity are each likely to regulate the expression of extreme structures of secondary-sexual selection. The near universality of sex differences in the nutrition sensitivity of these traits suggests that common developmental mechanisms may be involved. Here, we investigate the developmental mechanisms of sex-specific mandible growth in the stag beetle Cyclommatus metallifer, focusing on doublesex (Dsx) gene function and its interaction with juvenile hormone (JH) signaling. We show that mandible growth in stag beetles is regulated by the sex-determination cascade, specifically by expression of alternative splice variants of Cmdsx. Knockdown of Cmdsx caused mandibles of females to behave more like those of males, and their growth became sensitive to JH, and therefore should also have become condition-dependent. We suggest that sex-differences in tissue sensitivity to JH could be caused by action of the sex-determination cascade, specifically by expression of alternative splice variants of Cmdsx.
Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is a complex metabolic disorder characterised by elevated blood glucose levels. Pancreatic β-cell dysfunction and reduced insulin output in the presence of insulin resistance is the primary cause of T2D. The mechanisms leading to a switch from β-cell compensation during the early stages of insulin resistance to β-cell failure in the latter stages remain unknown. Studies from human T2D islets provide the most direct evidence regarding the nature of such β-cell changes. Reduced β-cell ATP is negatively correlated with glycaemic status and β-cell mass and insulin secretion. Through a trisomy 21 screening approach, RCAN1 was linked to β-cell mitochondrial dysfunction and reduced insulin secretion. RCAN1 expression was increased in human T2D islets, associated with reduced methylation of RCAN1 at multiple sites. Increased RCAN1 expression in mouse islets caused mitochondrial dysfunction, reduced ATP levels and impaired glucose-stimulated insulin secretion. Thus, RCAN1 expression is increased in T2D β-cells, and it is linked to mitochondrial dysfunction and reduced insulin secretion.
Rabies is caused by lyssaviruses. The Lyssavirus study group defines a new species of lyssavirus among other things by more than 18–20% nucleotide divergence within the N-gene compared to the existing lyssavirus species. The Rhabdovirus study group defines a new species of lyssavirus among other things by more than 18–20% nucleotide divergence within the N-gene compared to the existing lyssavirus species. Numerous viral variants of rabies virus (RABV) cause tens of thousands of human deaths annually on a global scale. Nevertheless, there are no further diversification criteria below the species level, and for lyssaviruses not even a standard definition for genetic grouping (e.g. lineage, clade, variant, strain, cluster) has been established. In this study, the term ‘cluster’ is utilized throughout the manuscript to define sub-species demarcation. In order to genetically characterize and sub-classify RABV isolates, multiple studies were conducted, resulting in approximately 21,000 datasets of partial and full genome RABV sequences obtained from the databases of the NCBI. Different studies analyzed the extent of relationship among selected samples using phylogenetic analyses to verify the results. However, the allocation of RABVs into clusters can be highly subjective, because the thresholds of statistical support vary depending on the respective dataset, often the sequence length. In combination with the individual designation of clusters at a regional and local level, comparison and combination of published phylogenetic studies on RABV is often difficult. In addition, the increasing number of available RABV sequences represents a challenge for conventional computation of phylogenetic inferences. Similar problems have been described for other viruses and alternative solutions developed. However, to reveal unbiased criteria for cluster definitions we preferred a workflow based on a novel non-hierarchical mathematical clustering method: affinity propagation (AP) clustering in combination with standardized phylogenetic analyses. AP is a tool that was developed for clustering similarity measures between all pairs of input samples based on the concept of "message passing" between data points. The method does not require a vector space structure and so called ‘exemplars’, samples that are most representative for a cluster, are chosen among the observed data samples and not computed as hypothetical averages of cluster samples. These characteristics make AP clustering particularly suitable for applications in bioinformatics, e.g. for microarray and gene expression data. Here, an extended panel of existing and newly obtained full genome RABV sequences was used to demonstrate the application of AP for RABV clustering and the results compared with previous studies. For AP clustering, a total of 516 RABV full-genome sequences were obtained from the NCBI sequence database using the tools implemented in Geneious. Phylogenetic analyses, including model test and neighbor joining (NJ) phylogenetic tree calculations, were conducted on all available RABV full genome sequences. AP clustering was applied to the complete preference range of input parameters and the respective number of clusters was calculated. The results are non-hierarchically ordered clusters, which can have unequal cluster sizes. By application of AP to pairwise genetic distances from an alignment of all 562 full RABV genomes, the most stable distribution after iteration over all possible input parameters was determined as four clusters. The results are non-hierarchically ordered clusters, which can have unequal cluster sizes. These four clusters show a defined spatial distribution, confirming previous analyses that demonstrated the influence of geographic origin rather than the host. In fact, allocation of clusters to known rabies reservoir hosts at this cluster level is problematic. As AP assigns sequences to robust and reproducable clusters based on transparent input parameter pre-analysis, we tested the hypothesis that a combination of AP with established classical phylogenetic analyses can overcome the inherent limitations of the latter methods alone. Therefore, a comparison of AP and classical phylogeny was undertaken to assess the overall extent of agreement between both methods. The obtained AP cluster distribution was transferred to the calculated phylogenetic dendrogram on an individual sequence basis, and visualized in a compressed tree. The analyses show that AP supports four main clusters. However, whether the two branches really form a separate cluster as suggested recently [21] can only be answered by including more full-genome sequences from those regions in future analyses. An advantage of AP clustering is that the dynamic evolution of further verifiable clusters can
Myelination is a vertebrate invention that is essential for rapid saltatory conduction in the nervous system. In the peripheral nervous system (PNS), myelination is achieved by Schwann cells. In the central nervous system (CNS), myelination is achieved by oligodendrocytes. The transcription factor Sox10 plays a central role in the myelination programs of both cell types. Here we show that Sox10 is required for the induction of Myrf, a transcription factor that is central to the myelination program in oligodendrocytes. We define a key circuit of the myelin-specific regulatory network in oligodendrocytes and show that it is differentially implemented. Sox10 and Myrf cooperate in the activation of myelin genes and other essential components of the terminal differentiation and myelination programs. These findings provide a molecular basis for the striking similarities and differences between the myelination programs of Schwann cells and oligodendrocytes.
The organization of synaptic inputs in the nervous tissue is not well understood. In this study, we used morphological models based on optimal wiring principles to study the relationship between dendritic branching structures and the precise organization of synaptic inputs in neurons. We found that the regularity of the spatial distribution of synaptic inputs correlated weakly with the regularity of branching features. Moreover, we found that branch point distributions and termination points in dendrites differed, with termination points in dendrites being generally spread out more randomly with a close to uniform distribution. We then validated our results with connectome data from the fly larva and the adult-born periglomerular neurons of the olfactory bulb. Our results provide new insights into the relationship between dendritic branching and synaptic input organization in neurons.
Zinc (Zn) is crucial for host immune function and deficiency increases susceptibility to bacterial infection. However, the impact of Zn supplementation on host resistance to bacterial infection is unclear. Streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococcus) is a globally significant human pathogen and the leading causative agent of bacterial pneumonia. Here, we investigated host Zn status and how it influences susceptibility to pneumococcal infection in a murine model. Dietary Zn restriction significantly impacted Zn homeostasis in most niches colonised by S. pneumoniae. In niches with reduced Zn abundance, bacterial burden was significantly higher with the overall impact of dietary Zn restriction reducing murine survival time in response to S. pneumoniae challenge. In niches where Zn abundance was unaltered by dietary intervention, pneumococcal burden remained unchanged between dietary groups. Collectively, our findings show that host Zn status directly influences the host response to bacterial infection. Investigation of these changes revealed that they were niche-specific and influenced the progression of disease. Collectively, this work highlights the importance of ensuring dietary Zn sufficiency as a critical component of population-wide resistance against the global burden of pneumococcal disease in conjunction with vaccination and other antimicrobial strategies.
Previous studies have primarily focused on antisense transcription initiating upstream of genes. Here, we investigate the presence of antisense transcription downstream of gene promoters in human breast cancer cells. We find that genes with antisense transcription initiating at or within 2 kb of gene TSSs frequently display a downstream antisense transcription start site (daTSS) overlapping the downstream edge of promoter-associated chromatin features. daTSSs coincide with the downstream edge of promoter-associated histone modifications and chromatin remodeling complexes. daTSSs also coincide with the binding of transcription factors. We find that downstream antisense transcription is not associated with repression of gene expression. Taken together, these results suggest that antisense transcription initiating at gene promoters may contribute to the establishment and maintenance of a promoter-associated chromatin environment.
Dengue is the most important arthropod borne viral disease worldwide in terms of morbidity and mortality. In Brazil, the disease is an important public health problem associated with explosive epidemics and since DENV introduction in 1986, a total of 5,944,270 cases were reported, including 21,596 Dengue Hemorrhagic Fever (DHF) and 874 fatal cases. Currently, laboratorial diagnosis of dengue suspected cases is based on virus isolation in mosquito cell cultures, detection of viral RNA and DENV specific antibodies in serum or plasma. However, a number of studies have shown previously that the DENV nonstructural 1 (NS1) antigen, a highly conserved glycoprotein produced in both membrane-associated and secreted forms, is abundant in the serum of patients in the early phase of infection. Here, we aimed to assess for the first time the usefulness of NS1 capture tests as a diagnostic technique to demonstrate DENV antigens in human tissue specimens. In this retrospective study was used tissues homogenates from dengue fatal cases occurred in Brazil in 2002. The specimens analyzed in this study belong to a previously-gathered collection from the Laboratory of Flavivirus, IOC/FIOCRUZ from an ongoing Project approved by resolution number CSN196/96 from the Oswaldo Cruz Foundation Ethical Committee in Research (CEP 274/05), Ministry of Health, Brazil. The human tissues analyzed in this study were obtained from the collection of the Laboratory of Flavivirus at Oswaldo Cruz Institute, FIOCRUZ, Brazil, from the epidemic occurred in 2002. A total of 74 tissue samples were available from 23 fatal cases: liver (n = 23), lung (n = 14), kidney (n = 04), brain (n = 10), heart (n = 02), skin (n = 01), spleen (n = 15), thymus (n = 03) and lymph nodes (n = 02). Tissues sample collections were performed up to 12 hours (median 6 hours) post-mortem according to the Brazilian Ministry of Health necropsy protocol recommendations and stored at −70°C until used. As a laboratorial routine, all suspected dengue fatal cases are submitted to all diagnostic methods available in the laboratory to confirm dengue infection: virus isolation, RT-PCR, Real Time RT-PCR and also immunohistochemistry when formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissues are available. Virus isolation was performed by inoculation into C6/36 Aedes albopictus cell line [23] and isolates were identified by indirect fluorescent antibody test (IFAT) using serotype-specific monoclonal antibodies [24]. RT-PCR for detecting and typing DENV was performed as described previously [25]. Briefly, consensus primers were used to anneal to any of the four DENV types and amplify a 511-bp product in a reverse transcriptase-polymerase reaction. A cDNA copy of a portion of the viral genome was produced in a reverse transcriptase reaction. After a second round of amplification (nested PCR) with type-specific primers, DNA products of unique sizes for each dengue virus serotype were generated. One-step real-time RT-PCR assays were performed in the ABI Prism 7000 Sequence Detection System (SDS) (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA) as described previously [26]. Briefly, samples were assayed in a 30 µL reaction mixture containing the extracted RNA, 40× Multiscribe enzyme plus RNAse inhibitor, TaqMan 2× Universal PCR Master Mix (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA) and each specific primer and fluorogenic probe labeled at the 5′ end with 5-carboxyfluorescein (FAM) reporter dye and at the 3′ end with 6-carboxy-N,N,N′,N′-tetram
In China, men who have sex with men (MSM) have a high HIV burden. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of a crowdsourced HIV intervention on HIV testing uptake among MSM in eight Chinese cities. The study was conducted in Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Zhuhai, and Jiangmen in Guangdong province, as well as Jinan, Qingdao, Yantai, and Jining in Shandong province. MSM were recruited through Blued, a social networking mobile application for MSM. A closed cohort stepped wedge cluster randomized controlled trial was used to evaluate the intervention. The primary outcome measure was self-reported HIV testing in the past 3 months. The secondary outcomes included HIV self-testing, facility-based HIV testing, condom use, and syphilis testing. The intervention resulted in a 8.9% increase in the proportion of individuals receiving an HIV test during the intervention periods compared to the control periods. The intervention increased HIV self-testing by a risk ratio of 1.89. The crowdsourced intervention was effective in promoting HIV testing, particularly HIV self-testing. Our study extends previous research on crowdsourcing by using it to develop a comprehensive HIV testing service, evaluating its effectiveness in a pragmatic trial, and assessing the long-term effect of the intervention.
Cytomegaloviruses (CMVs) capture genes from their hosts to employ the derived proteins for employing the proteins for evading host immune defenses. Here, we report the presence of CD48 homologs (vCD48s) encoded by different pathogenic viruses, including CMVs. We show that the CMV encoded CD48 homolog A43, encoded by owl monkey CMV, is expressed with immediate-early kinetics and released from the cell. Soluble A43 binds to host 2B4 with high affinity and slow dissociation rates. A43 is capable of abrogating host CD48:2B4 interactions and strongly binds to human 2B4, preventing 2B4-mediated NK-cell adhesion to target cells. Soluble A43 also limits human NK-cell adhesion to CD48-expressing target cells, inhibiting the formation of the NK cell immunological synapse. Lastly, we demonstrate that A43 can interfere with human NK cell-mediated lysis of target cells expressing CD48. Our findings indicate that A43 functions as a decoy molecule, establishing a stable, long-lasting complex with 2B4 that prevents cytotoxic cells from recognizing its counter-receptor CD48 on the surface of infected cells.
Myelination is the process of wrapping axons with specialized membranes, called myelin, which is critical for proper functioning of the nervous system. The myelin membrane is composed of lipids, proteins, and cholesterol. A substantial fraction of the lipids incorporated into central nervous system (CNS) myelin are contributed by astrocytes, whereas oligodendrocytes are thought to synthesize the majority of the proteins. Here, we show that oligodendrocytes are not sufficient for CNS myelination, but that lipid supply from astrocytes is also required. We found that a conditional deletion of sterol regulatory element binding protein (SREBP) cleavage-activating protein (SCAP) in oligodendrocytes leads to severe myelination defects in mice, accompanied by a compensatory increase in uptake of fatty acids from external sources. When astroglial lipid metabolism was selectively compromised, oligodendrocytes started incorporating circulating lipids into myelin membranes. A lipid-enriched diet rescued hypomyelination in conditional mouse mutants, suggesting that lipids, with elevated circulation levels, can reach the brain and are incorporated in the growing myelin membrane. Our findings indicate that myelin membrane synthesis is critically dependent on astrocyte-derived extracellular lipids for myelination, and that lipid flux from the circulation to the myelin membrane under astrocyte metabolism-compromised conditions is sufficient to overcome hypomyelination.
Contact prediction in the context of multiple sequence alignments is an important problem in computational biology. The problem can be attacked by different methods, all of which can be considered as attempts to infer structural properties of homologous proteins from their multiple sequence alignments. The field has traditionally focused on pair-wise Potts models from statistical physics for contact prediction. In this work we show that contact prediction can be improved along the three dimensions of contact prediction: data, model and method. The three dimensions are important for overall prediction success, and we have shown that neglecting any dimension may lead to suboptimal results. We have also shown that it is possible to improve significantly along the second dimension (choice of predictive model) by going beyond the traditional pair-wise Potts models and considering other extensions that are better suited to handle the presence of long stretches of gaps in multiple sequence alignments. Finally, we have shown that the gap correction behavior can be achieved by alternative method of scoring the resultant coupling matrices. We believe that these are only the first steps in a rational approach to incrementally improve contact prediction, and that with the ongoing explosion in the number of available protein sequences much further progress should be possible on these issues.
Hantaan virus (HTNV) infection in humans is a serious public health concern in Asia. The activation of cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) and CD8+ T cells are important for the control of HTNV infection. The epitopes of the HTNV restricted by HLA alleles remain largely unexplored. In this study, we defined five well-conserved novel CD8+ T-cell epitopes of the HTNV nucleoprotein (NP) and evaluated the epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell response in patients with hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS). The epitopes were restricted by HLA-A2 and B35, respectively. The frequency of epitope-specific pentamer+ CD8+ T-cell response was much higher in mild/moderate patients than in severe/critical ones at the acute stage of the disease. The frequency of epitope-specific CD8+ T cells at the acute stage was inversely associated with the peak level of serum creatinine and positively associated with the nadir of platelet counts during the hospitalization. The characteristics of effective epitope-specific CD8+ T cells were characterized by the production of interferon-γ, expression of CD69, and the strong capacity of proliferation. These results provide a first step toward effective peptide vaccine development against HTNV infection in humans.
The 2014-2015 Ebola outbreak in Guinea has impacted sleeping sickness screening and caring activities in the three coastal districts of Boffa, Dubreka, and Forecariah. We aimed to assess the impact of Ebola on sleeping sickness screening and caring activities in these districts. We performed a retrospective analysis of the data of all the people screened and/or treated for HAT in the three districts within the frame of the Guinean HAT National Control Program (PNLTHA) routine activities. Data were collected from February 2012 to October 2015. The number of persons screened during active campaigns and the number of persons screened passively during the 2014–2015 period were not available for passive screening before 2014. We estimated Disability Adjusted Life-Years (DALYs) before and after the Ebola crisis, using the same methodology as the 2010 Global Burden of Disease study. Data were anonymized prior to the analysis. A total of 213 patients were treated for HAT. The number of newly reported HAT cases was 154 (72%) before and 59 (28%) during the Ebola outbreak. During the Ebola period, significantly more patients were diagnosed with stage 2 disease compared to the pre-Ebola period (96% vs. 55%, p<0.0001). The proportion of patients attending the 3 months and 6 months post-treatment follow-up visits decreased from 44% to 10% (p<0.0001) and from 16% to 3% (p=0.017), respectively. The DALYs generated for sleeping sickness before the Ebola outbreak were estimated to be 48.7. During the Ebola outbreak, the DALYs increased to 168.7, 284.9, and 466.3 assuming case fatality rates of 2%, 5%, and 10% among under-reported HAT cases, respectively. The drop in newly diagnosed HAT cases during the Ebola epidemic is likely due to hampered screening activities and the fear of the population in seeking confirmation and linkage to care, rather than a fall in HAT incidence.
Sex differences in schizophrenia are well documented, but the genetic basis of this sex difference is not understood. We have used DNA pooling to identify sex-specific genetic associations with schizophrenia. We found a female-specific association with the rs7341475 SNP in the fourth intron of the reelin (RELN) gene. The association showed a significant gene-sex effect (p = 1.6 × 10−5). The association was replicated in four additional populations (UK, Ireland, China and USA), with a combined effect in all populations (ORGG = 1.58, pgenotype = 8.8 × 10−7, pinteraction = 1.6 × 10−5). The association is unlikely to be due to population stratification, as we found no evidence for stratification in the Ashkenazi Jewish sample.
Candida albicans is the most common cause of oral fungal infections. The mechanisms employed by C. albicans during oral candidiasis are largely unknown. We aimed to identify novel virulence factors for oral candidiasis and to characterize their function. We selected 12 novel genes that were upregulated during oral infection and in silico predicted to encode novel proteins. We generated homozygous knockout mutants for all 12 genes and found that 11 mutants caused significantly less epithelial damage than the wild type. We next focused on the characterization of the novel gene orf19.6656 (DUR31), which was upregulated during oral infection and encoded a predicted plasma membrane localized sodium/substrate symporter. Deletion of DUR31 caused a strong attenuation in oral epithelial damage, endothelial damage and virulence in a murine model of hematogenously disseminated candidiasis. DUR31 was required for the transport of polyamines, which are important for hyphal formation and extracellular alkalinization. In addition, DUR31 was required for the survival of C. albicans in the presence of histatin 5, an antimicrobial peptide that is present in the saliva of healthy individuals but is reduced in HIV+ patients. Our study has provided insight into the molecular mechanisms of C. albicans pathogenicity during oral candidiasis.
Terminal differentiation of B cells is essential for the humoral immune response in vertebrates. The regulatory network controlling terminal B cell differentiation is not fully understood. In this work, we inferred the regulatory network controlling terminal B cell differentiation and developed a dynamical model that describes the differentiation pattern from a precursor cell to any of the GC, Mem, or PC cell types. The model accounts for the differentiation from the precursor Naive to any of the GC, Mem, or PC cell types in response to a specific set of extracellular signals. The model highlights the importance of Pax5, Bcl6, Bach2, Irf4, and Blimp1 as key regulators of B cell differentiation process. The model qualitatively describes the directional nature of terminal B cell differentiation and key differentiation events from a precursor cell to terminally differentiated B cells. The model qualitatively describes the directional nature of terminal B cell differentiation and key differentiation events from a precursor cell to terminally differentiated B cells. The models show consistency with the patterns of activation observed for Naive, GC, Mem, and PC cell types. The dynamical model of the regulatory network is able to describe the differentiation pattern outlined in Fig 1, from the Naive precursor to any of the GC, Mem, or PC cell types by means of sequential pulses of extracellular signals known to direct terminal B cell differentiation.
