Intestinal adenoma is a benign tumour that develops in the intestine of mice and humans, and is the first step towards colon cancer. Epigenetic alterations are known to occur in tumours, but the specific epigenetic changes in intestinal adenoma are largely unknown. Here, we report the genome-wide analysis of DNA methylation in intestinal adenoma. We find that adenoma is characterized by recurring differentially methylated regions (DMRs), which are enriched for Polycomb Repressive Complex (PRC) target genes. We also find that the recurring DMRs are conserved between mouse and human colon cancer, and that adenoma-specific DNA methylation patterns are distinct from those of normal intestinal epithelial cells. We rarely find hypermethylation and silencing of tumour suppressors in early adenoma, but find a large fraction of tumour suppressors with promoter hypermethylation in human colon cancer. Our data suggest that epigenetic changes in intestinal adenoma are largely de novo, and that the core set of DMRs is conserved between mouse and human colon cancer.
Human infection with Trypanosoma cruzi leads to Chagas disease, which presents as a spectrum of clinical forms, ranging from a relatively mild form (indeterminate), to a severe heart disease that affects approximately 30% of the infected individuals. It has been demonstrated that patients with the indeterminate clinical form of Chagas disease display a predominantly modulatory immune environment, with higher production of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 and IL-17, which are produced by monocytes (IL-10) and T cell subsets (IL-10 and IL-17). On the other hand, the response observed in cardiac patients tends to be more inflammatory, with higher production of TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma, which are correlated with worse cardiac function. Given the influence that the host immune response has on disease outcome, our goal was to determine whether infection by Y strain (Tc II) or Col cl1.7 (Tc I) had different effects on immunological characteristics of human monocytes and lymphocytes, which are key for establishing the immune response during infection. Our data showed that Col cl1.7 and Y strains lead to differential activation of monocytes and T cells, that are correlated with their profile of lower and higher virulence observed in animal models, respectively. Moreover, our data suggests mechanisms explaining how differences in parasite strains can lead to differences in human disease progression and outcome.
DNA polymerase ν (pol ν) is a DNA polymerase that is present only in organisms that use sexual reproduction and deploy sperm. We show that pol ν is expressed specifically in testis from mice and zebrafish, and that it is required for meiotic recombination. We also show that pol ν is not involved in DNA crosslinking agent sensitivity, and that mice with disrupted pol ν do not exhibit any phenotypes in somatic cells. These results support the idea that pol ν is important for meiotic recombination in germ cells.
Dengue viruses are the most common cause of arthropod-borne viral infections and pose a significant threat to public health. The development of a dengue vaccine is a critical strategy to combat the threat of infectious disease. Recently, a tetravalent dengue vaccine candidate has been developed, but it does not confer full protection against dengue-2 virus. In the present study, we expressed recombinant lipidated dengue-2 envelope protein domain III (LD2ED III) in Escherichia coli. LD2ED III was highly immunogenic and induced higher antibody responses than dengue-2 virus. The antibodies induced by LD2ED III had higher avidity and neutralizing capacity compared to those induced by dengue-2 virus. The antibodies induced by LD2ED III did not enhance dengue-2 virus infection in K562 cells. These results suggest that LD2ED III is a potential vaccine candidate with low risk of antibody-dependent enhancement.
In eukaryotic cells, signaling cascades transduce information about extracellular signals to the nucleus. Signaling cascades can be gradual, where the activity of each enzyme increases with the stimulus, or ultrasensitive, where a low signal is amplified to a strong response. In this work, we systematically analyze the cell-to-cell variability of protein kinase signaling cascades and discuss how it can be actively modulated by parameter tuning, gene expression noise regulation, or additional signaling mechanisms such as feedforward and feedback loops. We find that ultrasensitive cascades are inherently robust to protein concentration fluctuations, whereas gradual cascades exhibit strong cell-to-cell variability. We show that negative feedback regulation reduces variability in both gradual and ultrasensitive cascades. We also find that the time scale of negative feedback regulation determines its functional role. Finally, we show that correlated fluctuations in most signaling proteins are required to effectively reduce variability in gradual cascades. Our work provides a general framework for understanding the cell-to-cell variability of signaling cascades, and may explain why the yeast pheromone pathway shows switch-like decision making with little cell-to-cell variability.
CD8+ T cells are crucial for the control of chronic infections, such as visceral leishmaniasis. However, their role in this context is not well understood due to the lack of Leishmania-specific CD8+ T cell epitopes. In this study, we used transgenic Leishmania donovani parasites expressing ovalbumin to characterize the development, function, and fate of Leishmania-specific CD8+ T cell responses during the course of infection. We found that L. donovani parasites evade CD8+ T cell responses by limiting their expansion and inducing functional exhaustion and cell death. To determine the extent and significance of bystander activation and distinguish it from antigen-specific responses, we compared the expansion of adoptively transferred OT-I CD8+ T cells in mice infected with wild type (LV9) and Ovalbumin-transgenic (PINK) L. donovani parasites. In PINK infected mice, OT-I CD8+ T cells underwent a biphasic activation pattern: limited expansion during the first wave of infection and complete contraction after day 14. Despite the biphasic activation pattern, adoptively transferred OT-I CD8+ T cells produced high levels of IFNγ and were polyfunctional, suggesting that they were still functional. However, their capacity to produce cytokines was significantly reduced. We found that OT-I CD8+ T cells were dysfunctional due to the expression of B7-H1 on dendritic cells and that blocking B7-H1 restored the survival of exhausted OT-I CD8+ T cells. This resulted in a significant reduction of parasite load. These results demonstrate that restoration of dysfunctional CD8+ T cell responses induced by chronic L. donovani infections results in disease control and host protection.
The misfolding of the prion protein (PrP) is a key aspect of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs). The actual region of PrP that undergoes a deep refolding during the PrP conversion remains controversial, with many in vitro and in vivo studies suggesting different regions. In this work we have performed molecular dynamics simulations of the structured C-terminal domain of mouse PrP at pH 4.5, which corresponds approximately to the lowest pH observed in endosomes. We have shown that the protonation of H187, a slightly buried residue, destabilizes the protein fold and leads to extensive conformational changes on the microsecond time scale. We have also found that the electrostatic repulsion between the positive charge of H187 and the guanidinium group of R136 is a key factor in the destabilization of PrP. We have also found that the protonation of H187 leads to two possible transition routes, with either the unraveling of H2(Cter) alone (route) or the unraveling of H2(Cter) with simultaneous elongation of S1,S2 (route). This dual behavior seems to reconcile the various observations and proposals that have been made regarding the actual PrP region that undergoes a deep refolding upon conversion to prion.
To assess the long-term effectiveness of epilation versus surgery for minor trichiasis.
Dengue is the most prevalent mosquito-borne viral disease worldwide. Macrophages (MØ) are the major targets of infection by dengue virus (DV). The mannose receptor (MR) is a carbohydrate-recognition domain-containing receptor that is highly expressed on MØ and has been shown to be involved in cellular processes such as antigen presentation and phagocytosis. We show that MR binds to DV grown in mosquito cells and to recombinant mammalian cell–produced DV envelope glycoprotein. A recombinant MR fusion protein (CRD4–7-Fc) was shown to recognize DV envelope (E) protein in ELISA and blot overlays, and binding was inhibited by mannose, fucose and EDTA. The presence of MR on transfected cells is sufficient to confer DV binding. DV infection of primary human MØ was blocked by antibodies against the human MR suggesting that it is a novel functional receptor contributing to DV infection. We also show that pre-treatment of primary human monocytes with type 2 cytokines (IL-4/IL-13), which upregulate MR expression, increases their susceptibility to DV infection in vitro. Better understanding of receptor/s and entry pathways mediating infection in humans could be crucial to the design and safety of a dengue vaccine.
Computational simulations of spontaneous neural dynamics are used to investigate brain-environment interactions. In such simulations, the role of homeostatic mechanisms is unclear. Here, we show that a simple model of spontaneous neural dynamics can be adapted to a virtual environment, and that the presence of homeostatic mechanisms can lead to more stable behavioral trajectories through the environment. We demonstrate that the presence of homeostatic mechanisms leads to more stable neural and behavioral dynamics, and that the combination of both local and macroscale homeostatic mechanisms leads to the most stable solution. We suggest that the default mode network may play a role in maintaining homeostatic balance across the brain.
Recent measurements of chromosomal interactions in eukaryotic cells reveal a large number of intra- and inter-chromosomal contacts. The extent to which these interactions regulate gene expression is not clear. In this work, we developed an assay to probe the effect of long-distance chromosomal interactions on gene expression by ectopically inserting a promoter-driven GFP into thousands of genomic loci. We found that in a small fraction of loci, the GFP expression deviates from the norm and exhibits three distinct patterns. We then characterized the underlying regulatory mechanisms and showed that they are Sir2-mediated silencing, transcriptional interference, and 3D clustering. Interestingly, we found that the clustering mechanism is specific to a subset of Met4-targeted genes, and the clustering is enhanced by the presence of Met4. Our study demonstrates that a small fraction of long-distance chromosomal interactions can affect gene expression in yeast.
Homologous chromosomes are positioned and separated during meiosis by crossovers, which are positioned at the axial ends of homologous chromosomes. Crossovers are essential for correct chromosome segregation, yet the mechanism(s) by which they are positioned remain unclear. We have investigated the role of the conserved AAA+ ATPase Pch2 in controlling crossover placement and the formation of chiasmata. Pch2 localizes to chromosome axes in a pattern that is coordinated with crossover placement. Pch2 is required for normal levels of crossover placement, yet does not affect crossover levels. Pch2 also affects crossover interference, yet does not affect crossover levels. Pch2 is required for spore viability when DSBs are reduced, and is essential for normal chromosome segregation at reduced DSB levels. Pch2 is therefore a key player in crossover control and chiasma formation.
Pathogen perception by the plant innate immune system is critical for plant survival and productivity. The Arabidopsis RIN4 protein is a negative regulator of plant immunity. RIN4 is expressed in guard cells, which surround stomata and control leaf aperture. Here, we identify the Arabidopsis RIN4 protein complex using affinity purification and mass spectrometry. We demonstrate that RIN4 interacts with the proton pump AHA1 and AHA2. These interactions are mediated by the C-terminal regulatory domain of AHA1 and AHA2. We show that RIN4 can regulate AHA1/AHA2 activity in planta, and that AHA1/AHA2 are required for RIN4-mediated stomatal closure during pathogen infection. We also demonstrate that the rin4 knockout line is unable to re-open its stomata in response to virulent Pseudomonas syringae. Our results provide a mechanism for RIN4 to regulate plant innate immunity at the level of pathogen invasion.
European countries have faced outbreaks of mosquito-borne diseases (MBD) such as dengue and chikungunya, following the continuous importation of human cases in areas with established competent vectors such as Aedes (Stegomyia) albopictus. Vector control interventions can be implemented by local authorities to keep in check mosquito abundance and consequently reduce the epidemiological risk. Mathematical modelling of MBD associated with cost-effectiveness analyses can help optimizing routine vector control interventions with respect to constraints in human and financial resources. We simulated the transmission dynamics associated with chikungunya and dengue, using a standard SEI-SEIR approach, and coupled them with a population model of Ae. albopictus. We included the effect of routine larviciding in the population model. We used data from two seasons of entomological surveillance in multiple sites from northern Italy to parametrize a mathematical model of mosquito population dynamics and control. We found that, in the absence of interventions, the risk of autochthonous dengue transmission was low and limited to sporadic transmission in both years, because of the relatively low competence of European strains of Ae. albopictus. On the other hand, the risk of a chikungunya outbreak was estimated to be up to 30% in 2015, with a non-negligible probability of observing outbreaks larger than 50 cases in most sites. We found that the most effective interventions in reducing the amount of expected locally transmitted cases were those for which the window of larvicide efficacy covered at least the month of July. Larviciding reduced the probability of secondary cases only moderately, but it had an important impact in avoiding larger outbreaks. Our analysis included two seasons that were representative of a broad range of mosquito abundances, due to the remarkable temperature differences. The cost-effectiveness of larviciding depends on the actual mosquito abundance in a given year; however, general rules could be identified independently of the considered year: small villages (<10,000 inhabitants) with moderate-to-high mosquito abundances will maximally benefit of intense larviciding efforts made of season-round monthly treatment of public catch basins. For medium-sized towns (20–35,000 inhabitants) with high infestation rate, the benefits are partially offset by the higher cost of intervention; in these cases, a moderate larviciding effort (1 to 3 treatments within the season) is recommended. Larger cities in our study (>35,000 inhabitants) were characterized by a low or intermediate transmission risk, and the high costs of an intervention covering the entire urban area made it economically disadvantageous. In these situations, treating specific neighbourhoods with highest mosquito abundance (called ‘hot spot' approach [25]) may be cost-effective.
The bat Rhinolophus rouxii uses long narrowband calls and can successfully navigate through dense vegetation. However, the minimal set of cues that are used to avoid obstacles in this environment is unknown. We present a sensorimotor system that does not rely on reconstructing the 3D layout of the scene. The system is based on a first echo onset mechanism that extracts interaural intensity differences and time delays of the echoes and uses them to control the bat’s flight path. We propose that the bat can successfully avoid obstacles in a 3D environment using only these two cues. The results of our simulations support this hypothesis and indicate that the proposed mechanism is robust against noise and echo overlap. The proposed sensorimotor system is computationally explicit and provides a hard real-time response. We conclude that bats can successfully avoid obstacles in a 3D environment by exploiting a minimal set of cues.
The enigma of life's origin has long been associated with the evolution of metabolism. Here we explore the possibility that fundamental principles of metabolic organization might have played a role in the origin of life. We map an idealized artificial chemistry onto a simplified carbon atom reaction backbone, and use it to systematically compute pathways that are optimal for an array of elementary metabolic tasks, converting an input molecule into an output one. We find that the pathways display properties such as autocatalytic cycles, hierarchical modules, universally preferable metabolites and reactions, and a logarithmic trend of pathway length as a function of input/output molecule size. These properties are also observed in the pathways of the artificial chemistry employed in the study, and they are consistent with the properties of real metabolic pathways. Our findings suggest that fundamental optimality principles might underlie some biochemical complexity, and that they might have been a key factor in the emergence of life.
Genetic similarity is a fundamental aspect of population biology, and it can vary across geographic space and time. We propose a new method (MAPS) that can infer spatial and temporal patterns of population structure and growth by analyzing the sharing of long pairwise coalescence segments (lPSCs) in genotype data. MAPS takes as input a matrix of genetic similarities and a recombination map, and infers a set of surfaces that represent population sizes and dispersal rates across the habitat. We test MAPS on simulated data and apply it to a contemporary European dataset to infer population sizes and migration rates across the habitat. Our results reveal the spatial and temporal patterns of population structure and growth in Europe over the last approximately 3,000 years.
Insulin resistance is associated with chronic liver disease and metabolic disorders. The impact of insulin resistance on liver wound healing is poorly understood, and the role of insulin/insulin receptor substrate 2 (IRS2) in coordinating tissue-repair mechanisms is unknown. We show that Irs2 deletion in mice reduces paracrine Fgf7 signaling in the fibrotic stroma and epithelial repair in the liver during chronic DDC injury. Irs2 is required for the induction of Fgfr2-IIIb and Fgf7 expression in the fibrotic stroma and for sustaining epithelial Fgfr2-IIIb expression and Fgf7 sensitivity in bipotent adult liver progenitor cells. Coculture studies demonstrate that IRS2 in human hepatic stromal cells (hHSCs) regulates paracrine FGF7 signaling in bipotent liver progenitor cells (LPCs) and that silencing of IRS2 in hHSCs disrupts heterotypic cell–cell crosstalk between the stroma and LPCs. We propose that defective IRS2-dependent paracrine FGF7 signaling in the fibrotic stroma contributes to impaired hepatic wound healing in insulin-resistant mice.
The dendrites of neurons are responsible for receiving excitatory or sensory inputs. Dendrite patterning, the process of dendrite formation, is evolutionarily conserved across different species. We have identified a mutation in the ER stress sensor IRE-1/Ire1 as critical for proper dendrite arborization in the somatosensory PVD neuron of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. We show that the role of IRE-1 in dendrite patterning is evolutionarily conserved and that IRE-1 functions in the neuron through its nuclease activity. In ire-1 mutants, dendrites are less developed, and the DMA-1/leucine rich transmembrane receptor is mislocalized to the cell body. We find that mutations in the transcription factor xbp-1, a target of non-canonical splicing by IRE-1/Ire1, do not cause PVD phenotypes. We also show that reducing Insulin/IGF1 signaling can bypass the secretory block in ire-1 mutants. Our results demonstrate that the UPR and its downstream transcription factor DAF-16/FOXO can restore normal dendrite morphogenesis in ire-1 mutants. Our findings provide a novel insight into the mechanisms underlying dendrite patterning, and may have implications for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders.
The ArcAB two component system of Escherichia coli is a key regulator of anaerobic metabolism. ArcA directly regulates the expression of ∼100 operons and is predominantly a repressor of genes encoding enzymes that oxidize non-fermentable carbon compounds. However, the transcriptional output of ArcA is largely unknown, due in part to the lack of a comprehensive DNA binding site architecture. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by sequencing (ChIP-seq) and high resolution DNase I footprinting, we identified 176 ArcA binding regions on the E. coli genome under anaerobic fermentative conditions. These regions contain 18-bp direct repeat elements that define the ArcA binding site architecture. Bioinformatic analyses indicate that the binding site architecture is plastic and allows efficient binding of ArcA to multiple operons in the same narrow sequence space. This plasticity is also reflected in the regulation of expression of many operons, where ArcA binding sites are upstream of operons that are not directly regulated by ArcA. In addition, ArcA binding sites are associated with a variety of intergenic regions that encode transcription factors and regulators of carbon metabolism. Our results provide a comprehensive understanding of the transcriptional output of ArcA and suggest that the plasticity in the ArcA binding site architecture allows efficient binding of multiple transcription factors and regulates gene expression in response to the redox state of the NADH/NAD+ redox couple.
The retinoblastoma (Rb) tumor suppressor regulates cell cycle and is lost in many human malignancies. We used a forward genetic screen to identify mutations in zebrafish usp39, a conserved protein involved in RNA splicing. usp39 mutants exhibited microcephaly and adenohypophyseal cell lineage expansion without apparent changes in major hypothalamic hormonal and regulatory signals. Gene expression profiling revealed decreased rb1 and increased e2f4, rbl2 (p130), and cdkn1a (p21) expression. Overexpressing rb1 mRNA partially reversed embryonic pituitary expansion in usp39 mutants. usp39 encodes a conserved protein termed Sad1p in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and a 65 kDa (65K) SR-related protein in humans, both of which are involved in assembly of the spliceosome, the RNA splicing machinery. Mutation of usp39 resulted in a rb1 splicing defect leading to a premature stop codon and loss of rb1 expression. Our findings indicate that usp39 regulates embryonic pituitary homeostasis by targeting rb1 and e2f4 expression. Dysregulation of rb1 and e2f4 pathways may result in pituitary tumorigenesis.
Intrauterine infection with human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a common cause of permanent neurological disorders in infants and children. The mechanisms of disease associated with intrauterine HCMV infection are poorly understood. In this study, we have developed a murine model of congenital HCMV infection that utilizes intraperitoneal inoculation of newborn mice with limiting amounts of murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV). This model recapitulates the abnormal cerebellar development that is frequently observed in infants with intrauterine HCMV infection. Following infection, inflammation induced by the virus was associated with alterations in the developmental program of the cerebellar cortex. Treatment of infected animals with glucocorticoids reduced inflammation and abnormalities in the cerebellum, suggesting that the inflammatory response to infection contributed to the pathogenesis of cerebellar disease. These findings suggest that inflammation is a major contributor to the pathogenesis of cerebellar disease in infants with intrauterine HCMV infection and that modulating inflammation could be a potential therapeutic strategy for these patients.
Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) are a major cause of diarrheal illness in developing countries. ETEC pathogenesis involves both plasmid-encoded colonization factors (CFs) and autotransporter (AT) secretion of multiple virulence factors. AT proteins are composed of a highly conserved carboxy terminal outer membrane beta barrel and a surface-exposed amino terminal passenger domain. Recent immunoproteomic studies of ETEC H10407 independently identified EatA, Ag43, and pAT suggesting that these proteins are expressed during both experimental infection in mice and in humans. To assess the contribution of conserved, chromosomally-encoded AT proteins to protective ETEC immune responses, we examined the passenger domains of these autotransporters as potential candidates for ETEC vaccine development. Passenger domains of Ag43 and pAT were recognized by antibodies from mice following intestinal challenge with ETEC, and immunization with recombinant passenger domains from pAT or Ag43 provided protection against intestinal colonization with ETEC. These studies demonstrate that passenger domains of conserved autotransporter proteins could contribute to protective immune responses and represent potential targets for vaccine development in ETEC infections.
The first case of Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever (CCHF) in Oman was reported in 1995. We report on the epidemiology and clinical features of CCHF cases in Oman between 1995 and 2017. We also studied the viral RNA from recent CCHF cases and analyzed it using partial and complete S segment sequencing. A total of 88 cases were reported between 1995 and 2017. The majority of cases (80/88, 90.9%) had fever, hemorrhagic features were present in 41/88 (46.6%), and severe thrombocytopenia was observed in 64/88 (72.7%) cases. The most common risk factor was exposure to animals and/or butchering. The median age of the patients was 33 years. There was no evidence of intrafamilial spread or healthcare-associated infection. The sequences of the S segment ORF of 12 stored viral RNA isolates from patients presenting in 2013 and 2014 were submitted to GenBank. The phylogenetic relationships of the sequences were depicted in a maximum likelihood phylogenetic tree. CCHFV was endemic and under-recognized in Oman and neighboring countries. Prospective studies are needed to determine how often less severe cases of fever and thrombocytopenia are presenting in Oman.
The robustness of cellular systems against fluctuations in intracellular parameters is a common design principle of biological systems. Here, we studied the robustness of the budding yeast cell cycle against overexpression of CDC14 and ESP1, two proteins involved in the separation of chromosomes. We performed combinatorial genetic tug-of-war experiments to measure the copy number limit of overexpression of these genes. We found that the copy number limit of overexpression of CDC14 was very low, while the copy number limit of overexpression of ESP1 was quite high. We then analyzed the mechanism of robustness by using a mathematical model and found that the fragility arising from dosage imbalance between these genes is masked by CDH1 and CLB2. Our findings indicate that the robustness of cellular systems against dosage fluctuations of enzymes is a common phenomenon, and this phenomenon might be masked by other cellular components.
Kaposi’s sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) is a human oncogenic herpesvirus that is associated with various cancers. The viral lytic replication of KSHV requires the activation of the viral transcriptional activator RTA. Here, we report that RTA also inhibits the expression of STAT6, a transcription factor that is involved in the immune response to viral infection and tumorigenesis. RTA interacts with STAT6 and induces K48- and K63-linked ubiquitylation of STAT6 for degradation via the proteasome and lysosomal pathways. The degradation of STAT6 is critical for KSHV lytic replication and promotes the expression and ubiquitylated form of tripartite motif family like 2 (TRIML2), a tumor suppressor. The results suggest that STAT6 degradation is a novel mechanism for KSHV lytic activation and highlights the importance of the regulation of STAT6 in the pathogenesis of KSHV.
The greatest burden of dengue fever and dengue hemorrhagic fever cases was observed in 200 in the city of Dhaka, Bangladesh. This prospective cohort study was undertaken to determine the magnitude of seroprevalence and seroconversion among the surveyed population and establish the individual/household level risk factors for the presence of DENV antibodies in Dhaka, Bangladesh. The seroprevalence of DENV-specific IgG antibodies was high (80%) among the 1125 pre-monsoon study participants and increased to over 90% for the 600 paired samples collected during the post-monsoon time point. The extent of seroconversion was significantly associated with attendance in public gatherings, type of mosquito control measures used, and the presence of indoor potted plants. The results of this study suggest that the high magnitude of seroprevalence and seroconversion are significantly contributing to under-recognized mild and severe disease in Dhaka. Home-based interventions such as, removing indoor potted plants and increased bed net use, in addition to vector control measures in public parks, would reduce exposure to dengue infections among the residents of the city of Dhaka.
The strict anaerobe Clostridium difficile is the main cause of antibiotic-associated diarrhea and is associated with high morbidity and mortality. Sporulation is the key process in C. difficile infection. In this organism, sporulation is triggered by the mother cell-specific transcription factor σK. However, the mechanism of σK activation remains unclear. Here we show that the skinCd element is interrupted by a skinCd-less recombinase, CD1231, and that this recombinase requires the product of another gene, CD1234, for its activity. The gene encoding CD1234 is under the control of both the σE and SpoIIID transcription factors. Inactivation of CD1231 and CD1234 impairs sporulation and leads to alterations in the assembly of the spore surface layers. Thus, the skinCd element is essential for the timely activation of σK, but the excision of the skinCd element requires CD1231 and CD1234.
Shotgun metagenomics provides a rich set of microbial features that can be used to predict and identify disease states. In this study, we evaluated the accuracy of metagenomic data in predicting human diseases, and investigated the transferability of the models across studies. We assessed the prediction capabilities of shotgun metagenomics in six disease-associated datasets from eight studies, using different computational approaches (support vector machines, random forests, and Lasso). We also evaluated the prediction capabilities of the same models for other disease-related classification tasks, such as gender and body site discrimination. We found that the prediction accuracy varied considerably between datasets, and the best model for one disease was not necessarily the best for other diseases. However, we observed good transferability of the models between studies, and the models were able to predict the disease state of new samples from independent studies. We also identified biomarkers of general dysbiotic states of the microbiome rather than specific disease-associated microbiomes.
HLA-B*5701 is the host factor most strongly associated with slow HIV-1 disease progression. HIV-1 evolutionary rate was found to be lower in high-risk progressors (HRPs) than in low-risk progressors (LRPs) from a cohort of six untreated HIV-1 infected subjects, all carrying the HLA-B*5701 allele. However, the exact mechanism and clinical implications of this observation were not clear. The present study investigated HIV-1 evolutionary rate in HLA-B*5701 subjects and identified a possible mechanism for the observed differences in risk of disease progression. HIV-1 evolutionary rate was found to be lower in HRPs than in LRPs. No significant differences in rate heterogeneity across synonymous sites or purifying selection were observed. A strong inverse correlation was found between HIV-1 synonymous substitution rate and baseline CD4+ T cell counts. The findings suggest that HLA-B*5701 subjects who maintain high CD4+ T cell counts in early infection are more likely to control HIV-1 replication for an extended time and that synonymous substitution rates, which are proportional to in vivo replication rates, could be used as a novel evolutionary marker of disease progression.
Trypanosoma brucei, the causative agent of African sleeping sickness, is a protozoan parasite that survives in the bloodstream of mammals. In the absence of drugs, T. brucei is transmitted to mammals through the bites of tsetse flies. Trypanocidal compounds are the only effective drugs against T. brucei, but their mode of action is not well understood. In this study, we have used a RNAi screening approach in T. brucei bloodstream forms to identify a prime candidate mediating the action of anti-parasitic choline analogs. Depletion of this gene (TbMCP14) resulted in increased resistance of parasites towards the drugs, and over-expression of the carrier in procyclic forms increased parasite susceptibility. The results demonstrate that TbMCP14 is closely linked to the action of choline analogs, and suggest that this carrier may be an interesting target for drug action or targeting.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are considered to be the most successful class of drug targets, and over 140 GPCRs are considered orphan GPCRs. Here, we identified the first example of a genuinely orphan GPCR, bombesin receptor subtype-3 (BRS3), in placental mammals, including humans. BRS3 still connects to its original ligands, neuromedin B (NMB) and gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP), in nonplacental vertebrates but not in placental mammals. Positive selection in placental mammals led to a series of structural changes and the loss of its connection to NMB/GRP. Furthermore, the N terminus of placental mammalian BRS3 was under positive selection, and its N-terminal domain, which was highly conserved among nonplacental vertebrates, was under positive selection in placental mammals. Our results indicate that BRS3 is a genuinely orphan GPCR in placental mammals, including humans, and provide new perspectives on the origin of orphan GPCRs.
Sleep is a fundamental aspect of life that is essential for maintaining physical and mental health. However, its perturbation by environment, mutation, or medication remains a central problem in biomedical research. Automated sleep scoring is a crucial step in sleep research, but the traditional method of manual scoring by human experts is time-consuming and prone to inter-individual variability. Here, we present a new method called SPINDLE that is based on end-to-end learning and is capable of learning robust features that generalize across domains. We trained the SPINDLE model on a dataset of 22 animals from three independent labs, and achieved high accuracy of 99%, 98%, 93%, and 97% in identifying the vigilance states. Our method was able to generalize across animals from different experimental settings, labs and species, and was able to detect mutation-induced sleep alteration. We also provide a web service that allows researchers to utilize the SPINDLE method and benchmarking datasets for free.
Toxoplasma gondii is a major human pathogen and is responsible for severe infections in immunocompromised individuals. It is an obligate intracellular parasite that depends on host cells for its survival and replication. Isoprenoids are essential for the survival of all cells, and the parasite has evolved to manipulate the host to ensure its access to these compounds. We report that T. gondii is sensitive to statins, a class of drugs that inhibit cholesterol synthesis by the host. We used conditional mutants of the parasite to show that the parasite can rely on both host and parasite synthesis of isoprenoids. This dual reliance on host and parasite metabolism makes it a challenge for drug therapy. However, our results suggest that combining inhibitors of both host and parasite isoprenoid pathways could provide a higher rate of success in curing T. gondii infections.
The three species that constitute the Sigatoka disease complex, Pseudocercospora fijiensis, Pseudocercospora eumusae, and Pseudocercospora musae, are currently the most devastating diseases on banana, reducing yields by more than 40%. The evolutionary history of these pathogens is poorly understood, but their recent emergence and spread on banana is considered a serious threat to global food security. Here we have performed whole-genome shotgun sequencing of P. musae and P. eumusae and compared them with the recently determined genome sequence of P. fijiensis. Our analysis revealed that the three species show considerable differences in genome size and content, as well as in their gene family composition. In addition, we identified a number of species-specific adaptations, thus suggesting that the evolution of virulence in these pathogens has, to an extent, been facilitated by a number of species-specific adaptations. Finally, we show that, in addition to species-specific adaptations, a larger number of species-specific genes are also present in the three pathogens, suggesting that they may be virulence-associated genes.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a neglected disease that is associated with high mortality rates in the absence of treatment. In order to identify molecular mechanisms associated with pathological or protective responses during infections with Leishmania infantum, we evaluated the transcriptional activity of whole blood from patients with VL, patients under remission of the disease, healthy individuals that were infected with L. infantum but did not exhibit symptoms, and uninfected controls. We used a genome-wide approach to identify differentially expressed genes and transcriptional modules associated with distinct states of infection with L. infantum. Our results demonstrate that VL patients exhibited down-regulation of pathways and modules related to the innate immune response, while patients under remission of disease exhibited up-regulation of pathways and modules related to B lymphocytes and Notch signaling. Furthermore, we identified a transcriptional signature associated with activation of the Notch signaling pathway. Our results suggest that infections with L. infantum elicit a type I interferon signature in the peripheral blood of humans, whereby asymptomatic individuals exhibit the strongest associations with activation of this module.
The evolution of cooperation is a paradox because natural selection favors exploitative individuals. However, many social organisms cooperate, and the evolution of cooperation is therefore characterized by conflict between cooperating individuals. This conflict can lead to the evolution of complex, opponent-specific social strategies and counterstrategies. However, the genetic and biological mechanisms underlying complex social strategies are largely unknown. We have combined mathematical modeling, molecular genetic, and developmental approaches to address the dearth of empirical data. We show that complex social strategies can be generated by a simple system output, in this case based on the production and response to social signals. Our findings suggest that even though complex and seemingly unpredictable outcomes can result from social interactions, they can be governed by a set of simple rules. Therefore, our studies provide a novel solution to the generation of complex social behavior and provide a framework for understanding the evolution and maintenance of cooperative behavior.
Secreted proteins are essential for cellular physiology and are often targeted to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) for proper localization. It is not clear whether this localization is a result of the protein sequence or cis-acting RNA elements. Here, we show that a novel RNA motif (termed SECReTE) is present in mRNAs encoding secreted membrane proteins (mSMPs) and is enriched in secretome-encoding transcripts from prokaryotes to eukaryotes. SECReTE is not restricted to transcripts encoding membrane proteins, but is also present in soluble secreted proteins. SECReTE is enriched in the second and third codon positions of secretome transcripts, in comparison to non-secretome transcripts. SECReTE is also enriched in transcripts encoding secretome proteins that lack transmembrane domains. SECReTE is not dependent upon codon usage, and its presence is independent of the presence of the encoded signal sequence. SECReTE enhances secretion of mSMPs and their localization to the ER, and, thus, SECReTE is an important cis-regulatory element for the efficient secretion of secreted proteins.
Dengue, chikungunya, and Zika are severe mosquito-borne infectious diseases that are of growing concern in tropical and sub-tropical regions. The yellow fever mosquito Aedes aegypti transmits these viruses. A. aegypti is an invasive species that has colonized most tropical and subtropical regions, especially where it can disperse over long distances using human transportation systems. California (CA) has an extensive mosquito-monitoring program, and locally transmitted disease from A. aegypti is not common in the United States. However, breeding populations of A. aegypti were first reported in California in 2013. Here we used microsatellites and SNPs to examine the genetic structure and origins of CA A. aegypti populations. We found that CA A. aegypti populations are genetically distinct, and that two independent introductions of A. aegypti into Northern and Southern CA are responsible for the current populations within the state. We also found that the genetic data suggest that the founding events giving rise to the populations in both Northern and Southern CA likely occurred before they were first recognized in 2013 and 2014 respectively. Our findings have implications for mosquito surveillance and vector control activities, not only in California but also in other regions where the distribution of this invasive mosquito is expanding.
The oleaginous bacteria Rhodococcus species store triacylglycerols (TAGs) and wax esters (WEs) in large amounts. To better understand the metabolic basis of TAG and WE biosynthesis, we generated a draft genome sequence for Rhodococcus opacus PD630 and a comparative genome analysis of Rhodococcus jostii RHA1 and Rhodococcus opacus B4. The R. opacus PD630 genome contained 8632 genes that were subjected to a multi-genic test of the reconstruction. This revealed that 261 genes were dedicated to the TAGs cycle, including a large expansion in gene families that encoded for acyl-CoA ligases/synthases, fatty acyl-CoA dehydrogenases, and enoyl-CoA hydratases. We also found evidence of the uncommon straight-chain odd-carbon lipids pentadecanoic acid, heptadecanoic acid, and heptadecenoic acid in the TAGs of R. opacus PD630 and R. jostii RHA1. The Rhodococcus genome contained 3 membrane transport protein families in the top 9 expanded families of total encoded protein domains, indicating a broad catabolism profile. Genes for catabolism of carboxylic acids, nitrogen containing compounds, carbohydrates, alcohols, and oligosaccharides were identified. A multigenic test of the metabolic reconstruction revealed that Rhodococcus opacus PD630 had the largest gene families for TAGs cycle genes and had the most diverse catabolism of nitrogenous compounds among the species tested. This study provides a comprehensive metabolic model of the oleaginous bacteria Rhodococcus and provides a model for the integration of genetic, biochemical, and metabolic data for the development of biofuels.
Prokaryotic genomes are composed of a long chain of overlapping oligonucleotides. Here, we investigate how oligonucleotide usage varies within and between archaeal and bacterial genomes, and how bias in oligonucleotide usage is linked to genome size, GC content, and codon usage. We found that tetranucleotide usage was the oligonucleotide size with the most information potential. Bias in tetranucleotide usage was found to be more pronounced in GC rich genomes, and coding regions showed greater bias than non-coding regions. The GC content of non-coding regions was found to vary considerably within genomes, with the more GC rich an organism, the less variation in tetranucleotide usage. This was supported by a ratio test based on observed and expected oligonucleotide variance in coding regions. A regression analysis showed that the more GC rich a genome is, the less variation in tetranucleotide usage is found in non-coding regions. In contrast, the more AT rich an organism is, the more variation in tetranucleotide usage is found in non-coding regions.
Targeted gene disruption in mice has been used to model human diseases and to understand gene function. The targeting strategy used in the mouse, which is similar to that used in the rat, involves inserting a vector into intron 5’ to the target gene and selecting for the insertion of the vector by the presence of a neomycin resistance cassette. The presence of the neomycin resistance cassette and the LacZ reporter in the vector can be used to confirm targeting. However, the targeting event can also have unintended consequences on gene expression in the surrounding region, which may affect phenotypes. We evaluated the local effects of targeting in 44 homozygous mutant mice, 29 of which were deletion alleles (DEL) and 15 of which were gene trap alleles (TRAP). We used RNA-seq to evaluate local gene expression in the targeted and neighboring genes. We found that local effects occurred in both TRAP and DEL targeting strategies, and that DEL mutants had more local effects than TRAP mutants. We also found that the frequency of local effects was significantly higher than the genome-wide frequency of up- or down-regulated genes flanking the targeted genes. Our data suggest that the local effects of targeting are a consequence of the targeting event and not a compensatory change in response to loss of the targeted gene product.
The gonads of vertebrates are characterized by the intimate association of germ cells and supporting somatic cells. The precursor cells of the soma are derived from the embryonic lateral plate mesoderm, whereas germ cells originate from the germline lineage. To carry out their highly specialized biological functions, the somatic gonadal primordium and the germline cells together must establish timely regulated programs of gene expression. Dmrt1, the master sex-determining gene in vertebrates, is involved in the establishment of this complex program. Here, we show that the dmrt1 11-nucleotide cis-regulatory D3U-Box motif is a target for two antagonizing RNA binding proteins, Oryzias latipes CUG-binding protein (Ol-cug-bp) and Oryzias latipes Bicoid Stability Factor (Ol-bsf), in medaka. These two RNA-binding proteins have antagonizing properties and regulate either RNA stabilization in germ cells or degradation in the soma. We show that this new mechanism of dmrt1 RNA stability appears to regulate also the abundance of other transcripts specifically expressed in PGCs, depending on the preservation of the D3U-box motif.
Mosquitoes lay their eggs in the aquatic milieu. Water passes freely through their transparent eggshells during early embryogenesis, which allows eggs to shrink and die in a dry environment. The eggshell is composed of an outer exochorion and an inner serosal cuticle. Although the exochorion is melanized, the serosal cuticle is not. The presence of melanin in the eggshell increases resistance to desiccation, but this relationship has not been evaluated in mosquitoes. We employed two Anopheles quadrimaculatus strains, one with a golden cuticle phenotype and the other with a rose eye phenotype, to evaluate the role of eggshell pigmentation in the resistance to desiccation of mosquito eggs. We also employed Aedes aegypti, Anopheles aquasalis and Culex quinquefasciatus eggs. The eggs of the Anopheles strains were placed in a dry environment and hatching rates were evaluated. We also assessed the role of eggshell melanization in the resistance to desiccation of Anopheles and Culex eggs. Our results indicate that melanization and serosal cuticle formation are fundamental for the establishment of an efficient resistance to desiccation in mosquito eggs. In addition, we demonstrate that eggshell melanization positively impacts the egg survivorship outside the water.
Helminthic parasites, such as schistosomes, are found in >80% of the world's population. There is a hypothesis that these parasites increase susceptibility to immunodeficiency viruses, such as HIV-1, but this hypothesis has never been tested in a relevant model. Here we evaluate the impact of schistosome infection on susceptibility to mucosal AIDS virus transmission in rhesus macaques. Schistosome-infected macaques were exposed to a dose of the recently described R5-tropic SHIV-C that remained sub-infectious in parasite-free controls. The minimal infectious dose for parasite-free controls was 1 ml of virus stock diluted 1∶50; only 2 of the 3 animals exposed to this dose became systemically infected. In contrast, the minimal infectious dose in animals with schistosomiasis was 1 ml of virus stock diluted 1∶300; all 3 animals exposed to this dose became systemically infected. The AID50 of SHIV-C was 17-fold lower in animals with schistosomiasis (0.0014 ml, 95% CI, 4×10−4 to 5×10−3) than in parasite-free controls (P<0.001). Peak vRNA loads were >1 log higher in animals with schistosomiasis, and levels of both CD4+ (P<0.001) and CD8+ (P<0.001) T cells were elevated in these animals compared to virus-only controls, consistent with the generalized immune activation caused by schistosomiasis. Our data support the hypothesis that helminth infection increases susceptibility to de novo immunodeficiency virus infection in hosts harboring helminths.
Developmental reproducibility is a fundamental question in developmental biology. However, the molecular mechanism that maintains developmental reproducibility against intrinsic noise remains unclear. To address this issue, we investigated the role of the segmentation clock in maintaining developmental reproducibility during somitogenesis, a developmental process in which somites are repeatedly produced in a single embryo. We developed a computational model of ERK-mediated somitogenesis and found that the clock maintains reproducibility by reducing the noise effect. We also found that the clock has two distinct roles: temporal regulation of stepwise ERK shift and improvement of ERK-mediated somitogenesis reproducibility. We confirmed our model predictions by live imaging of ERK activity in zebrafish embryos. Our results suggest that the segmentation clock contributes to noise-resistant developmental reproducibility.
The quaternary arrangement of subunits in oligomeric proteins is crucial for their functionality. Here we investigate the effect of oligomerization on the dynamics of the component subunits in the Amino Acid Kinase (AAK) family of enzymes. The AAK family members are cooperatively inhibited by arginine and allosterically regulated by GTP. The AAK family consists of hexameric, trimeric, and dimeric forms, which are represented by N-acetyl-L-glutamate kinase (NAGK), carbamate kinase (CK), and UMP kinase (UMPK), respectively. We have computed the low-frequency modes of motion accessible to monomeric, dimeric and hexameric forms of the family members. The hexameric arrangement of NAGK and CK, but not the dimeric arrangement, is able to selectively exploit the inherent dynamics of the monomeric building blocks. The hexameric arrangement of UMPK, on the other hand, is unable to couple the rigid-body movements of its monomeric building blocks. The low-frequency modes of motion accessible to the monomeric subunits are preserved in the hexamers, but the global dynamics of the hexamers are affected by the interfacial contact topology. The study sheds light on the significance of the particular quaternary design in selectively determining the oligomer dynamics congruent with required ligand-binding and allosteric activities.
Rabies is an important zoonosis that is maintained in domestic dog populations in Africa. Understanding the role of humans in the dispersal of rabies virus is essential for controlling it effectively. We used a recently developed Bayesian phylogeographic approach to infer the evolutionary history of 287 rabies virus sequences (3080 nt; encompassing the whole N, P and intergenic G-L region) sampled from Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia and the Spanish territories from North Africa (Ceuta and Melilla) between 1986 and 2008. Our analysis revealed that the virus is spreading largely disconnected from other geographic locations, with occasional long-distance and rapid spread within each of the countries studied. These findings are consistent with human-mediated dispersal of rabies-infected dogs. Our study illustrates the power of phylogeographic approaches to identify the factors responsible for the spread of major animal and zoonotic pathogens.
The 2014 FIFA World Cup will be held in Brazil from June 12th to July 13th, 2014. Dengue is a mosquito-borne viral disease predominantly spread by female Aedes aegypti mosquitoes in tropical regions of the world. Brazil has reported over half a million cases per year since 2007 and almost one million cases in 2010. This year, Brazil will host one of the largest sport events worldwide. A total of 64 games will be played in 12 cities across the country. A total of 2.5 million tickets will be sold and it is expected that between 300,000 and 600,000 supporters from countries outside Brazil will visit the games. Large scale events such as the World Cup have raised concern about the possible spread of infectious diseases among visiting tourists and the local population. We used historical dengue surveillance data for game and basecamp cities to estimate the risk of dengue during the World Cup. We found that this risk was low but varying across locations. We used historical dengue surveillance data to estimate the risk of symptomatic dengue infection during the World Cup. This risk was estimated separately for game cities visited by tourists and basecamp cities where country teams will reside. Between 300,000 and 600,000 foreign visitors are expected during the World Cup and approximate distributions of tickets among the top ten countries with the most tickets allocated have been released by the Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA). We assumed that 600,000 foreign visitors will visit the World Cup and that they will be distributed among countries according to ticket allocations. We distributed the difference between 600,000 and the 484,237 total allocated tickets equally among the participating countries for which no ticket allocations have been published. Given that the number of dengue cases depends on the local risk in each game city and that it will remain unknown where each country team will play until completion of round one, we assumed that all tourists will visit during round one only. We distributed the number of visitors from each country equally across their three game cities during round one and computed the number of cases for each city using the expected IR's for each week in this round. We aggregated the number of cases separately for IR's estimated with the percentile rank (PR) or the Empirical Bayes (EB) method. For each country, the number of cases was first computed per game city and per week, and then aggregated before rounding the number of cases to whole digits. The rounded numbers of cases were aggregated for the total number of cases expected across all countries. We estimated that on average between 26 and 53 symptomatic dengue cases will occur among 600,000 tourists visiting Brazil during the World Cup. This number ranged from a low of 4 to a high of 334 in the worst case scenario.
To combat obesity, increasing energy expenditure through brown adipocyte recruitment is a promising strategy. To achieve this goal, it is essential to have a fundamental understanding of the gene regulation network that governs brown adipogenesis. Here, we provide a comprehensive reference map for the dynamic epigenome and transcriptome during brown adipogenesis and identify novel regulators promoting brown adipocyte differentiation. We first compare the transcriptome and epigenomic landscapes of murine brown and white adipocytes and identify a number of putative regulators of brown adipogenesis. Through gain- and loss-of-function analyses, we validate four of these factors: PIM1, SIX1, RREB1, and SOX13. We show that these factors are either essential or sufficient for brown adipocyte differentiation. Finally, we identify a number of potential regulators of brown adipogenesis by comparing the epigenomic profiles of brown and white adipocytes and identify potential regulators.
Paracoccidioidomycosis (PCM) is a systemic fungal infection endemic in South America. Although the diagnosis is based on the visualization of yeast cells, serological tests are commonly used for the diagnosis and follow-up of patients. However, the serological diagnosis is not routinely standardized. In this study, we compared the performance of six reference centers for serological diagnosis of PCM. Each center provided 30 sera of PCM patients and applied its own antigen preparation and serological routine test to the sera from the other five centers. The titers of PCM patients' sera were transformed into scores of 0 (negative), 1 (healing titers), 2 (active disease, low titers), and 3 (active disease, high titers) according to each center's criteria. The discordances among the scores given by the centers were analyzed. The results show that there are inconsistencies among the laboratories, strong enough to result in conflicting information regarding the patient's treatment. The study suggests that renewed efforts should be promoted to improve standardization of the serological diagnosis of PCM.
Hookworm-related cutaneous larva migrans (CLM) is a neglected tropical skin disease caused by the migration of animal hookworm larvae in the epidermis. The disease is frequent in resource-poor communities in tropical countries. In the present study, we investigated the impairment of skin disease-associated life quality in patients with CLM in a semi-quantitative manner. The study was conducted in Manaus, Brazil, in 2008–2009. The diagnosis of CLM was made clinically and the severity of the disease was determined semi-quantitatively. Skin disease-associated life quality was assessed using a modified version of the Dermatology Life Quality Index (mDLQI). Ninety-one patients with CLM were included in the study, 63 of them were male and 28 female. The median age was 10 years (IQR 7-12, range 5–44 years). Forty-four point eight percent of the patients had more than two lesions. The maximal number of lesions was 51.88% of the patients. The majority of the patients (51.6%) showed a moderate life quality impairment. At baseline, the median mDLQI score was 5 (IQR 3-8). The degree of skin disease-associated life quality impairment correlated strongly with the severity of the infection (rho = 0.76; p<0.001) and the number of affected body areas (rho = 0.30; p = 0.004). A significant correlation existed between the presence of lesions in clearly visible body areas and the mDQLI score (p = 0.002). The follow–up examinations showed an improvement of skin disease-associated life quality two weeks after treatment with ivermectin (median mDLQI = 5 [IQR 3-8] versus 1 [IQR 0-3; p<0.001] and a normalization of skin disease-associated life quality four weeks after treatment with ivermectin (median mDLQI = 0 [IQR 0-1] versus 4 [IQR 0-1]; p<0.001). The impairment of skin disease-associated life quality was positively correlated with the severity of the infection and the number of body areas affected. Ivermectin caused a complete resolution of the lesions within one month and restored skin disease-associated life quality to the normal level.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a neglected tropical disease (NTD) caused by the protozoan Leishmania infantum. The domestic dog (Canis familiaris) constitutes the main reservoir in urban areas. In Latin America the sand fly species Lutzomyia longipalpis is the vector of Leishmania infantum, and the emergence of VL in new areas of South America has led to a great interest in the study of the ecological parameters of this species. In the present study, we evaluated the dispersal, population size, duration of gonotrophic cycle, and estimated survival of a population of Lutzomyia longipalpis (S)-9-methylgermacrene-B) in a highly endemic area of VL in Brazil. We used the mark-release-recapture method to estimate the daily survival rate, population size, and density per km2 for females and males. The recapture rate of females ranged from 2.2% to 12.8% and for males from 7.7% to 20.7%. The recapture rate within 100 meters was 97%. The estimated daily survival rate ranged from 0.79 to 0.89. The population size ranged from 900 to 4,857 females and from 2,882 to 9,543 males. The duration of the gonotrophic cycle was estimated to be five days. Our findings support the idea that the high vector survival rate observed, the low dispersal, and the presence of all the necessary conditions for the establishment and maintenance of the vector population are associated with loyalty behavior. Our findings related to the population’s daily survival rate provide the first published information on Neotropical species involved in the transmission of the agent of VL in the Americas.
Enteropathogenic EPEC (EPEC) is a common cause of diarrhea in developing countries. EPEC colonizes the intestinal epithelium and injects into epithelial cells effector proteins that repress NF-κB and MAPK signalling. Here, we show that EPEC infection leads to NF-κB activation, which is dependent on expression of an active type three secretion system (TTSS). The TTSS-dependent NF-κB activation is independent of TLRs, Nod1/2, and of the TAK1-NF-κB pathway. Instead, it is dependent on the ability of epithelial cells to sense active TTSS and activate a novel pathway that converges with the TAK1-NF-κB pathway. In addition, we show that EPEC acquired effectors that dampen NF-κB activation, which are encoded by horizontal gene transfer. These findings suggest that EPEC employs a novel mechanism to evade the host response, which is independent of effector injection.
The RNA recognition motif (RRM) is a conserved protein domain that binds a wide range of RNA structures. Recently, we engineered the RRM of Rbfox protein to target the oncogenic precursor miR-21. Here, we use molecular dynamics simulations to predict the structural determinants of the Rbfox•pre-miR21 complex. We show that the mutations designed to improve affinity and selectivity of the protein for the pre-miR21 target RNA lead to a dramatic increase in the protein’s flexibility, which is likely to reduce the affinity of the complex for the pre-miR20b target RNA. We also predict that a new mutation, S151T, would further improve affinity and selectivity for the pre-miR21. Our results suggest that engineering the specificity of the RRM domain is a valuable approach to target RNAs of arbitrary sequence.
Schistosomes are blood-dwelling flatworms that parasitize the human host for their entire life. The schistosome life cycle is characterized by the parasite’s ability to manipulate host physiology by releasing bioactive molecules. In this study, we report the biochemical and enzymatic characterization of a serine protease, SmSP2, which is the most abundantly expressed serine protease in Schistosoma mansoni, the causative agent of schistosomiasis. SmSP2 is a multi-domain protease (residues 201–501) that contains a thrombospondin-1 type 1 repeat (TSR-1) domain (residues 111 to 178) and a serine protease domain (residues 201 to 501). The protease domain of SmSP2 was heterologously expressed in Pichia pastoris and purified as an active enzyme. The protease domain of SmSP2 was inhibited by serine protease inhibitors, including leupeptin and benzamidine. Cleavage specificity analysis with positional-scanning and multiplex substrate libraries revealed a preference for basic amino acids at the P1 position. The activity of SmSP2 towards host-derived macromolecular substrates was tested with several human and bovine proteins. After incubation, the mixtures were subsequently analyzed by SDS-PAGE. No hydrolysis was observed for hemoglobin and serum albumin, the two major protein components of vertebrate host blood. Also, neither immunoglobulin G nor collagen was cleaved by SmSP2. On the other hand, SmSP2 completely hydrolyzed the blood clotting protein, fibronectin. We also analyzed the processing of three blood proteins: HMWK, tPA and human plasminogen. Amino acid sequencing showed that HMWK was processed to the kininogen light chain (KLK). Also, the heavy chain was completely fragmented. LC-MS/MS analysis of the reaction mixture revealed the release of the HMWK-derived vasodilatory nonapeptide, bradykinin. SmSP2 cleaves vasopressin, a hormone that increases arterial blood pressure by inducing vasoconstriction. We also show that the whole schistosome parasite can cleave the vasopressin and release bradykinin from its synthetic precursor, when co-incubated in vitro. The activity is due to a serine protease(s) (possibly SmSP2) that is most abundantly expressed serine protease in adult schistosome.
Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is the leading cause of morbidity in immune-compromised patients. The role of γδ T cells in protection against CMV has not been firmly established. Using the murine model of CMV infection, we show that γδ T cells are as competent as αβ T cells to control MCMV infection and protect mice from death. The protective role of γδ T cells was confirmed in immunodeficient hosts and in the absence of NK cells. γδ T cells were sufficient to prevent organ damage in mice challenged with CMV, and were as efficient as αβ T cells in preventing death. These results show that γδ T cells are sufficient to protect mice from CMV infection, and open new perspectives for the use of this model to define the precise mechanism of antiviral activity of γδ T cells and to develop new strategies to induce their activation in vivo.
Cysteine proteases are important for parasite invasion and intracellular development. In Plasmodium parasites, an inhibitor of cysteine proteases, the ICP, is constitutively expressed and proteolytically processed throughout the life cycle. To analyze the role of ICP in Plasmodium parasites, we generated parasites with a conditional knockout of the Plasmodium berghei inhibitor of cysteine proteases (PbICP). PbICP-deficient parasites were unable to invade hepatocytes and showed a severe attenuation of blood stage development. PbICP-deficient parasites were also severely impaired in invasion of salivary glands and were unable to invade hepatocytes. These results argue that ICP is essential for parasite invasion and development in the mosquito and mammalian host.
H2A.Z is a highly conserved histone variant that is essential for embryonic development and lineage commitment. H2A.Z is incorporated at a subset of H3K4me3 marked promoters and is enriched at bivalent promoters that are poised for activation. Here, we show that the divergent H2A.Z acidic patch domain is a critical determinant of H2A.Z dynamics and its incorporation is required for proper induction of developmental gene expression programs during lineage commitment. We find that H2A.ZAP3, a mutant variant with a set of divergent residues replaced with the H2A residues, is less stably associated with chromatin compared to H2A.ZWT and is less enriched at target promoters. Notably, bivalent genes are highly differentially regulated in H2A.ZAP3 ESCs relative to H2A.ZWT. Further, H2A.ZAP3 shows a higher dynamic association with chromatin and a higher occupancy at target genes upon treatment with the transcriptional inhibitor flavopiridol. Collectively, these data suggest that the divergent H2A.Z acidic patch is a critical determinant of H2A.Z dynamics and that it plays a key role in regulating gene expression during lineage commitment.
The laboratory developed a retrospective method for reconstructing cell lineage trees. The method uses somatic mutations accumulated in microsatellites. Here we demonstrate the reliability of our method by confirming known facts about stem cells and tissue dynamics in the mouse colon. We also address open questions about the nature of colon crypts and their relationships with other cell types. Our findings confirm that colon crypts are monoclonal and that they undergo monoclonal conversion throughout adulthood. We show that the colon is constituted by few progenitors and that there is no evidence for hematopoietic renewal of the intestinal epithelium during adulthood. In addition, we show that colon crypts are clustered separately from other cell types. Our findings demonstrate the power of using somatic mutations to decipher developmental and physiological features in crypts and stem cell dynamics.
The ability of antiretroviral therapy (ART) to reduce HIV levels in plasma is well established. However, the impact of ART on HIV production in other tissues is poorly understood. To address this gap in knowledge, we evaluated the impact of ART on HIV production in different organs throughout the body. We found that ART penetrates each of the examined tissues and reduces HIV production in each tissue to a similar extent. However, HIV persists during ART in every organ examined. This observation provided a basis for evaluating the systemic efficacy of an immunotoxin that targets HIV-1 Env gp120 in BLT mice. We found that the immunotoxin significantly reduced the number of HIV producing cells throughout the body, leading to a reduction in cell-associated vRNA levels in all organs analyzed. This study provides proof of concept for the use of targeted cytotoxic therapy as a complement to ART for the depletion of HIV producing cells during therapy.
The dengue viral protein, NS1, has been identified as a new approach to dengue diagnosis. We have assessed the sensitivity and specificity of two commercial NS1 assays, the Platelia ELISA and a lateral flow rapid test (NS1-LFRT), in the context of different viral serotypes, viral burdens and clinical presentations in Vietnamese patients. Both assays were specific (100%) and had high sensitivity (83% and 73% respectively) in acute dengue cases, though the sensitivity of both assays was influenced by the patient's duration of illness prior to study enrolment. NS1 detection was associated with higher viraemia levels and a higher proportion of secondary dengue cases. The sensitivity of both assays was reduced in patients with DENV-2 infections.
Rabies is a neglected tropical disease that causes around 59,000 human deaths annually. Mass dog vaccination campaigns are the most effective way to eliminate rabies. Static point (SP) vaccination campaigns are often used in Sub Saharan Africa (SSA) to vaccinate dogs. However, SP vaccination campaigns often suffer from low attendance and result in low vaccination coverage. We used a combination of data from a mass vaccination campaign in Blantyre, Malawi, a city-wide questionnaire survey of dog owners and GIS data to investigate the barriers to attending SPs. We found that distance to the nearest SP was an important predictor of attendance to SPs. Specifically, our regression model showed that for every km closer the odds that the dog was taken to a SP for vaccination were 3.3 times higher. Distance was also one of the main reasons for not attending SPs most commonly quoted by the owners (17%). We also found that socio-economic status influenced attendance to SP vaccinations. Our model shows that dogs from areas with higher proportions of people living in poverty are more likely to be presented for vaccination. Interestingly, the model also shows that the effect of distance described above is increased at increasing levels of poverty. We also found that young age of the dog, lack of awareness of the vaccination campaign and difficulty in handling dogs were important barriers to attending SPs. Our findings suggest that future vaccination campaigns should increase efforts on improving positioning of SPs so that they become more accessible. We have also shown that there is a clear need to provide timely and accurate information about upcoming campaigns, emphasing the importance of puppies being vaccinated and identifying ways to improve dog handling.
The African trypanosome parasite is transmitted to mammalian hosts through the saliva of the tsetse fly. The salivary gland of the tsetse fly is a complex organ that is involved in the infection and survival of the parasite. The tsetse salivary gland transcriptome has not been characterized, and thus, the molecular mechanisms of parasite-host interactions within this organ are not well understood. Here, we used RNA-seq to compare the transcriptome of the salivary gland of uninfected and parasitized tsetse flies. Our analysis revealed that the parasite infection drastically suppresses the expression of the abundant saliva proteins that are important for the parasite's survival in the salivary gland. In addition, we identified a large number of novel and differentially regulated genes that are expressed in the parasite developmental stages present in the salivary gland. The analysis of the parasite transcriptome revealed that the parasite infections cause a metabolic shift from glucose to amino acids utilization, and that the surface coat is modified to enable parasite survival in the mammalian host. Our study provides the foundation for understanding the molecular aspects of the trypanosome's interaction with its tsetse and mammalian hosts.
Bacterial strains isolated from attine ants were evaluated for antiprotozoal activity against Leishmania donovani. Compounds 1–4 were isolated from the cultures of Streptomyces sp. ICBG292 and Streptomyces puniceus ICBG378. These compounds showed high activity against intracellular amastigotes of L. donovani. The selectivity indexes for compounds 3 and 4 were 88.91 and 656.11, respectively, suggesting their safety. Compounds 3 and 4 were more active than the positive control, miltefosine. Compound 3 was identified as nigericin, and compound 4 as dinactin. The mechanism of action of nigericin and dinactin against L. donovani has not been described. Compounds 1 and 2 were also isolated from Streptomyces sp. ICBG233 associated to workers of Atta sexdens, and from the organic extract of these ants by mass spectrometry.
African trypanosomes can undergo their complete morphological life cycle in the tsetse fly vector, with mating being a non-obligatory part. The sub-species Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense causes East African Sleeping Sickness in humans, but its genetic structure has been controversial, with some studies describing a clonal population structure and others an epidemic population structure with frequent mating. We have used microsatellite markers to determine allelic variation and multilocus genotypes from parasites isolated from three different foci of disease in East Africa, two in Uganda, and one in Malawi. The Ugandan populations were highly clonal with little evidence for genetic exchange, whereas the Malawi population was highly diverse and showed evidence for frequent genetic exchange. These findings demonstrate that the population structure and the role of genetic exchange in T. b. rhodesiense differ between the two geographic regions, and suggest that T. b. rhodesiense is not a clonal variant of T. b. brucei.
Spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) is a learning rule that changes synaptic strengths based on the relative timing of pre- and post-synaptic spikes. STDP has been shown to be an effective learning rule for learning the timing of spikes in sensory systems. In this study, we considered how STDP in recurrent networks with oscillatory inputs can select the axonal and dendritic delays of the connections in the network. We derived analytical results for the learning of oscillatory inputs in a recurrent network and showed that, after learning, the network is selectively responsive to the input frequency. We extended our results to show how the network becomes selective in the amplitude of its oscillatory response to the training frequency. We also considered how STDP in recurrent networks can lead to the formation of neuronal ensembles or cell assemblies in the cortex.
Leishmania infantum is the etiological agent of Zoonotic Visceral Leishmaniasis (ZVL) in humans and dogs. Currently there are no systemic insecticides for dogs registered against phlebotomine sand flies. We have developed a mathematical model to predict the efficacy of a systemic insecticide against phlebotomine sand flies in dogs. Our results show that a community-wide use of systemic insecticides in dogs could significantly reduce the annual number of human infections with L. infantum in an endemic area. We also identified the minimum requirements for systemic insecticides to reduce human infections by 50%. The model allows us to estimate the dog population coverage required to reduce human incidence by 50% for an insecticide with given characteristics. The estimated reduction in human incidence in the baseline intervention model used in the sensitivity analysis was 50.3%.
Invasion of erythrocytes by Plasmodium merozoites is mediated by specific interactions between host receptors and parasite ligands. We have used time-lapse video microscopy, flow cytometry and Western blotting to study changes in intracellular calcium levels in Plasmodium falciparum merozoites during erythrocyte invasion. We demonstrate that calcium levels in merozoites rise when merozoites are exposed to low potassium ion concentrations as found in blood plasma. This rise in intracellular calcium triggers the release of microneme proteins such as EBA175 to the merozoite surface. Importantly, EBA175 binding to its erythrocyte receptor glycophorin A (glyA) restores basal cytosolic calcium levels and triggers the release of rhoptry proteins such as CLAG3.1 and PfRH2b. These observations provide a starting point for the analysis of signaling pathways involved in regulated secretion of apical organelles during host cell invasion.
Tumor vessels are known to be leaky and irregular due to angiogenesis. This results in inefficient drug delivery. Normalization of tumor vessels is a promising approach to overcome this barrier. In this study, we investigate the effect of vessel normalization on drug delivery using a dynamic vessel network model. We apply antiangiogenic agents to tumors and observe the changes in tumor vessel structure and drug delivery. We show that vessel normalization increases drug extravasation in the tumor interior and improves tumor regression. In addition, we demonstrate that tumor regression is more effective when antiangiogenic therapy is combined with chemotherapy.
Myeloid dendritic cells (DCs) are potent antigen presenting cells that monitor their immediate environment for invading pathogens. The ability of these sentinel DCs to sample and process antigen, and present processed antigen to naïve T cells is critical to the development of effective adaptive immune responses. HIV, in turn, has evolved to evade antigen presentation pathways and exploit DC biology to facilitate its dissemination within the infected host. DC-mediated HIV-1 trans infection of CD4+ T cells is an efficacious HIV dissemination mechanism that has been hypothesized to provide virus particles with an evasion mechanism from host innate and adaptive immune responses. Here, we report that HIV-1 capture by DCs is dependent on the expression of the ganglioside, GM3, in the virus particle membrane. We demonstrate that CD169, a type I IFN-inducible receptor, is the DC receptor that mediates GM3-dependent HIV-1 capture, and that CD169 expression on DCs is required for DC-mediated HIV-1 trans infection of CD4+ T cells. Furthermore, capture of HIV-1 particles by DCs can result in localization within non-lysosomal compartments that are connected to the DC surface by deep membrane invaginations, and trafficked to DC – T cell infectious synapses upon initiation of DC – T cell contacts. These findings describe a novel mechanism of pathogen parasitization, involving the interaction between GM3 and CD169, for DC-dependent HIV dissemination.
Chondrocytes differentiate in the developing skeleton and mature in the overlying perichondrium. Mutations in cartilage matrix (PG) synthesis genes cause craniosynostoses and skeletal dysplasias, suggesting that PGs play a critical role in the timing of skeletal development. We used forward genetic screens in zebrafish to identify mutations in fam20b and xylt1, two critical genes for PG synthesis. Fam20b and xylt1 mutants showed premature expression of chondrocyte maturation markers, such as Indian hedgehog (Ihh) and collagen type 10a1 (col10a1), and precocious perichondrial bone formation. Biochemical and ultrastructural analyses showed that mutant chondrocytes had defects in cartilage matrix production, but not in the synthesis of heparan sulfate PGs. These mutants showed increased cartilage matrix production and premature perichondrial bone formation, which resulted from premature chondrocyte maturation. Our findings argue that chondrocyte PG defects accelerate endochondral ossification, which may be a common mechanism for human skeletal defects.
Severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome (SFTS) is an emerging infectious disease caused by the SFTS virus (SFTSV). SFTSV was first identified in 2007 in Jiangsu province, China. Since then, SFTS has been reported in many provinces in China and neighboring countries. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive survey of SFTSV ecology in ticks and small wild animals in an SFTS endemic area in Jiangsu province. We detected SFTSV-RNA in both feeding and questing Haemaphysalis longicornis and H. flava. Interestingly, viral RNA was identified in unfed larvae of H. longicornis, collected directly from the environment prior to a first blood meal, indicating that SFTSV could be vertically transmitted in nature. We also detected SFTSV-RNA in small wild mammals including Erinaceus europaeus and Sorex araneus, and detected viral antibodies in two migratory bird species, Anser cygnoides and Streptopelia chinensis. Infection of SFTSV in the wild bird species suggests that SFTSV could be transmitted long distances by them, which is also in agreement with a phylogenetic analysis reported earlier. If further confirmed, it could explain why phylogenetically closely related viral strains have been identified in various regions geographically far away from each other. Our findings in this study will help formulate effective measures to deter the further spread of this deadly emerging pathogen.
Large dsDNA viruses are major drivers of ecological change in the ocean and are recognized as major ecological and evolutionary drivers. However, their ability to shape microbial populations and their role in regulating the fate of algal blooms in the ocean remain poorly understood. Here, we examined the dynamics of host-virus interaction at the single-cell level using a trackable host-virus model system, the marine alga Emiliania huxleyi and its specific virus (EhV). We demonstrate that heterogeneity in viral gene expression among individual cells within the same population can be used to identify distinct infection states. We uncovered an unrecognized phase of early host response prior to viral gene expression within infected cells and identified a unique signature of host genes that are differentially expressed in resistant cells. We suggest that examining host and virus gene expression profiles at the single cell resolution allows to infer the temporal dynamic of the infection process, thereby it serves as an attractive approach to decipher the molecular mechanism underlying host-virus interaction.
In cancer, gene function is not solely determined by the gene itself, but also by the network neighborhood in which it is embedded. However, to date, no comprehensive approach to assess the functional changes in breast cancer has been developed. We propose a novel approach to characterize the network-induced functional changes in breast cancer, and to predict patient survival and histopathological subtypes. We utilize the HIPPIE protein interaction network to generate sample-specific PINs and to infer functional assignments of each gene in each sample using a diffusion-based strategy. We find that a gene’s function is significantly altered in breast cancer, as inferred by our diffusion-based functional assignment, and that this change is often accompanied by mutational and copy number changes. The predicted functional changes in breast cancer are also associated with poorer patient survival. Our approach is complementary to the traditional functional annotation-based approaches and provides a better prediction of patient survival and histopathological subtypes.
Avian influenza A virus (IAV) populations are characterized by high levels of antigenic diversity and multiple subtypes circulating in the same host species. Little is known about the mechanisms of IAV antigenic diversity and the extent of competition between different subtypes in the natural host populations. Here, we challenge mallards with a subtype of H3N8 low-pathogenic IAV and subsequently challenge them with different subtypes of H3N8, H4N5, H6N2, H10N7, H12N5, or the same H3N8. We evaluate the impact of these re-challenges on the persistence of antibody responses and the ability of birds to clear infections and identify the factors that influence the outcome of re-exposures. We show that partial protection to re-infection is observed in some groups and that the outcome of re-exposures is influenced by the degree of genetic relatedness between the HA of the viruses used in the re-challenge. The results suggest that the extent of competition at individual level through host immunity could be determined by many different interacting parameters: the strains involved in infections, the exposure history (or boost responses like original antigenic sin), and likely time between exposure/s (assuming that immune memory decreases over time).
Horizontal gene transfer mediated by plasmid conjugation plays a significant role in bacterial evolution as well as in the dissemination of antibiotic resistance and pathogenicity determinants. The conjugation machinery of plasmids from Gram-positive bacteria has been studied in more depth. However, comparatively little is known about conjugation systems present on plasmids from Gram-positive Enterococcus faecalis. Here, we report for the first time the regulation of a conjugation system present on a native Bacillus subtilis plasmid. The conjugation genes of the plasmid pLS20cat are not induced by recipient-produced pheromones, and are instead activated by a plasmid-encoded anti-repressor that belongs to the Rap family of proteins. The anti-repressor is regulated by a signaling peptide, Phr*LS20, that is encoded by a rap-phr cassette located immediately upstream of the anti-repressor gene. The results of this study show that the conjugation genes of pLS20cat are activated by RapLS20 and that Phr*LS20 inhibits RapLS20-mediated activation of the conjugation genes.
Dengue virus (DENV) is the most important arbovirus in the subtropics and tropics. The primary vector of DENV is the mosquito Aedes aegypti. To identify genes that are differentially expressed between susceptible and refractory mosquitoes in response to DENV infection, we performed genome-wide transcriptome analyses in A. aegypti susceptible and refractory strains at two critical early periods after challenging them with DENV. Our data reveals that A. aegypti genes show transcriptional responses in a modular manner at early infection periods, wherein groups of genes are expressed in a tightly correlated manner. Our analysis further shows that specific biochemical pathways are enriched among these modularly expressed genes in the susceptible and refractory mosquitoes. This study was performed in accordance with the recommendations in the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals of the National Institutes of Health. The animal use protocol was approved by the University of Notre Dame Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (Study # 11-036). The A. aegypti strains Moyo-S (MS) and Moyo-R (MR) are sub-strains of the Moyo-in-Dry (MD) strain that was collected indoors from Shauri Moyo, near Mombasa, Kenya. Sub-strains were originally selected for Plasmodium gallinaceum susceptibility and refractoriness, respectively. Although not selected for DENV susceptibility, the sub-strains also show significant differences in mean DENV serotype 2 (DENV-2) infection rates with ∼20% in one (MR: DENV-2 refractory) and ∼57% in the other (MS: DENV-2 susceptible) in comparison to the original MD strain, which shows natural low DENV infection rates of ∼13%.
Loiasis is a major cause of blindness in tropical Africa, particularly in areas of co-endemicity with onchocerciasis. The annual community directed treatment with ivermectin (CDTI) has been used for several years in areas of onchocerciasis-loiasis co-endemicity. The impact of CDTI on loiasis has been evaluated in this study. A cross-sectional study was carried out in four areas of onchocerciasis-loiasis co-endemicity in Cameroon. A total of 3,684 individuals were enrolled for parasitological screening. The prevalence of individuals with high and very high microfilarial load was determined. The relationship between adherence to ivermectin treatment and the prevalence/intensity of L. loa microfilariae was explored. The impact of ivermectin MDA on the reduction of potential risk of developing severe adverse events (SAEs) was evaluated. The prevalence of L. loa microfilariae in the non-CDTI district of the East region was 29.3% (range = 24.2%–34.6%). In the Northwest and Southwest 2 CDTI projects, there was a reduction in loiasis prevalence from 30.5% to 17.9% (after 9 ivermectin rounds) and from 8.1% to 7.8% (not significantly different after 14 rounds), respectively. The association between adherence to ivermectin treatment and L. loa microfilariae prevalence/intensity was highly significant. The proportion of individuals with high microfilarial load was reduced by 73.6%, 59.7% and 20% in the East, Northwest and Southwest sites respectively while the proportion of very high microfilarial load carriers was reduced by 40%, 75.8% and 50% in the respective sites. The proportion of individuals with high and very high microfilarial load was reduced by 80.9% and 88.6% respectively in the Northwest and East sites. The proportion of individuals with high and very high microfilarial load was reduced by 95.1% and 97.8% respectively in the Southwest and East sites. In the non-CDTI health district, no child was found with high or very high microfilarial load. In the areas of co-endemicity with onchocerciasis, the annual repeated treatment with ivermectin has had a significant impact on the parasitological indicators of loiasis. The adherence to ivermectin treatment is a key determinant for its full impact on L. loa parasitological indicators. The non-adherence to ivermectin treatment has been associated with perceived fear of severe adverse events (SAEs). This constitutes an inbuilt design that may prevent ivermectin to ever have full impact on L. loa transmission in endemic areas. In the areas of co-endemicity L. loa with O. volvulus or Wuchereria bancrofti, ivermectin would likely also have limited impact on both the parasitological and entomological indicators of those filariae. These observations reinforce the urgent need of putting in place alternative strategies to accelerate the elimination of onchocerciasis and LF in areas co-endemic with L. loa. This also calls for a research agenda to develop safe drugs to combat L. loa.
Replication and transcription of the genome are coordinated by the replisome and RNA polymerase, respectively. However, there is a bias towards co-orientation of these processes. Here we report that the extent of the impact of head-on transcription on replication varies depending on the gene type. We engineered new strains of Bacillus subtilis in which the transcription bias was reversed over an extensive segment of the chromosome or at a localized rRNA operon, and examined the impact of this reversal on replication elongation and genome integrity. We observed that reversing the transcription bias over an extended segment of the chromosome resulted in a ∼30% decrease in replication rate, and disrupted replication at the rRNA operons. Disruption of replication was associated with strong induction of the DNA damage response and cell death. In contrast, inverting the rRNA operons resulted in strong growth defects only in rich medium, and replication elongation was disrupted only at the rRNA operons. This suggests that the impact of head-on transcription on replication is different depending on the growth environment. We propose that the orientation bias of replication and transcription evolved to minimize mutagenesis of essential and highly-expressed genes.
Schistosomiasis, the most important helminthic disease, is caused by blood flukes of the genus Schistosoma. The parasites are transmitted to humans by aquatic larvae and can cause chronic morbidity and mortality. Schistosomes are difficult to manipulate in the laboratory and lack tools for genome-wide functional genomics. Here we report that infection of blood stream forms of the human blood fluke Schistosoma mansoni with pseudotyped human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) leads to attachment of virions, reverse transcription of the RNA genome of HIV-1, and integration of the provirus into the genome of the parasite. HIV-1-based manipulation of these parasites should enable advances in functional genomics for schistosomes and related neglected tropical disease pathogens.
Leptospirosis is a zoonotic disease caused by pathogenic Leptospira spp. The reservoir host for Leptospira is the brown rat, Rattus norvegicus. Leptospires colonize the kidney of reservoir hosts and are shed in urine at high densities, with bacterial acquisition by new hosts occurring through cuts/abrasions or mucous membranes as a consequence of direct exposure to infectious urine or urine-contaminated water. Leptospires persist within the kidney of reservoir hosts for extended periods of time, a capacity which is critical for disease transmission. Here we investigate the presence of post-translational modifications (PTMs) on the major leptospiral protein LipL32. In vitro-cultured Leptospira and leptospires shed in the urine of rats housed in metabolic cages were analyzed by proteomics. In vivo-derived leptospires were found to contain PTMs, including acetylations and tri-methylations, on lysine residues within LipL32. Four of the eight modified lysine residues occurred in regions previously identified as immunogenic regions of LipL32. Furthermore, we observed a correlation between lysine modifications occurring within LipL32 and regions of the protein that have been previously identified as immunogenic. A synthetic peptide containing tri-methylated lysine showed significantly reduced immunoreactivity compared to the peptide version lacking tri-methylation. This study provides the first in vivo proteomic investigation of post-translational modifications of a major leptospiral lipoprotein and provides insight into the potential functional consequences of such modifications.
The immune system can accommodate multiple inflationary responses to epitopes from different pathogens. Here, we show that the host is able to support multiple inflating and central memory responses against two unrelated pathogens at the same time. We also show that acute MCMV infection results in rapid depletion of pre-existing inflating memory T cells. This depletion is not due to a lack of space, as the inflating population does not impact on the size of the newly developing inflating population. We also find that the depleted inflating population is able to recover upon boosting with Ad-lacZ. These data suggest that the host is able to accommodate multiple inflationary responses to epitopes from different pathogens at the same time without any evident cost to the size of the existing or the newly generated effector memory population.
Sexual dimorphisms in trait expression are widespread across diverse animal taxa. In insects, sexually dimorphic traits are often exaggerated to the point that they are sexually selected. The developmental mechanisms that generate such sexually-dimorphic traits are poorly understood. We have identified a sex-determination gene, doublesex, as a candidate for the development of sexually-dimorphic traits in stag beetles. Doublesex is a transcription factor that is expressed in both sexes, but is differentially spliced to produce male- and female-specific isoforms. We have shown that the expression of doublesex in mandibles of stag beetles is sexually dimorphic, and that doublesex is required for sex-specific mandible growth. We have also shown that mandibles of females are insensitive to juvenile hormone (JH) treatment, whereas mandibles of males are highly sensitive. We suggest that this insensitivity of mandibles of females to JH is caused by sex-differences in tissue sensitivity to JH, which is mediated by the sex-specific expression of doublesex. Our findings demonstrate a causal link between sex-determination and endocrine signaling pathways, highlighting their interaction in determining the development and final sizes of sexually-dimorphic traits.
Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is a complex metabolic disorder characterised by reduced insulin secretion in the presence of insulin resistance. T2D β-cells display mitochondrial dysfunction and reduced ATP levels, but the mechanisms underlying this are unknown. We screened a panel of mouse models of Down syndrome (DS) for genes that regulate mitochondrial function and β-cell dysfunction in T2D. The trisomy 21 mouse models, Ts65Dn and Ts1Rhr, were hyperglycaemic and Ts65Dn mice had impaired glucose tolerance. We found that RCAN1, a gene linked to mitochondrial dysfunction in DS mouse models, was increased in human T2D islets and when overexpressed in mouse islets, caused mitochondrial dysfunction and reduced insulin secretion. In RCAN1 transgenic mouse islets, RCAN1 expression was associated with reduced DNA methylation of the RCAN1 promoter. This reduction in methylation correlated with RCAN1 expression in human islets and was reversed by oxidative stress inhibitors. In RCAN1 transgenic mice, RCAN1 expression reduced glucose-stimulated membrane depolarisation and insulin secretion. In RCAN1 transgenic cells, membrane depolarisation was reduced and mitochondrial respiration was inhibited. These changes were associated with reduced ATP levels, consistent with mitochondrial dysfunction. Thus, this screening approach identified RCAN1 as a potential regulator of β-cell mitochondrial dysfunction and reduced insulin secretion in T2D.
Rabies is the most important zoonotic virus worldwide, causing an estimated 50,000 human deaths annually. The evolutionary history of rabies virus (RABV) has been studied by phylogenetic analyses, but cluster definitions are often subjective. To overcome these limitations, we combined affinity propagation clustering with standardized phylogenetic analyses to define RABV clusters on a global scale. The analyses identified four main clusters, confirming the results of previous studies. In addition, we used affinity propagation clustering to cluster RABV sequences based on the species concept, which is a fundamental criterion for species definition. Affinity propagation clustering is a novel non-hierarchical clustering algorithm that is computationally fast and works for any meaningful measure of similarity between data samples. It is not limited to any particular measure of similarity and is therefore suitable for a wide range of applications in bioinformatics, including phylogenetic analyses. In this study, the combination of affinity propagation clustering with phylogenetic analyses enabled us to resolve phylogenetic relationships between verifiably determined clusters and sequences. The results demonstrate that affinity propagation clustering is a suitable method to define RABV clusters on a global scale.
The myelin sheath is a highly specialized membrane that surrounds axons in the nervous system. It is produced by oligodendrocytes (OL) in the central nervous system (CNS) and Schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). In both cell types, the transcription factor Sox10 is essential for myelination. Here we show that Sox10 is also required for the myelin-specific regulatory network in OL. Sox10 induces and cooperates with Myrf, a transcription factor that is essential for terminal differentiation and myelination in Schwann cells. In the absence of Sox10, Myrf is not expressed and myelination fails. We have identified a conserved intronic enhancer element of the Myrf gene that is responsive to Sox10 in oligodendroglial cells. It is bound by Sox10 and mediates the induction of Myrf and other myelin genes. Sox10 and Myrf cooperate in the activation of transcription factors involved in myelination. Our data provide a detailed view of the regulatory network in OL and argue that myelination is a conserved, highly regulated process.
The branching structure of dendrites reflects the organization of synaptic inputs. How do neurons collect inputs from other neurons? Answer: Neurons collect their inputs from other neurons by sending out arborized dendritic structures. How do inputs be distributed in the neural tissue? Answer: Inputs could be distributed in tight clusters, entirely randomly, or in a regular grid-like manner. What is the relationship between the shape of dendrites and the organization of synaptic inputs? Answer: The relationship between the shape of dendrites and the precise organization of synaptic inputs remains unclear. How can inputs be distributed in the neural tissue? Answer: Inputs could be distributed in tight clusters, entirely randomly, or in a regular grid-like manner. What is the regularity index R used for in analyzing dendritic branching structures? Answer: The regularity index R is used to characterize the spatial distribution of branch and termination points by calculating average nearest neighbor distances. What do the distributions of branch and termination points indicate? Answer: The distributions of branch and termination points depend strongly on cell types, suggesting possible fundamental differences in synaptic input organization. How do the distributions of branch and termination points differ? Answer: Branch point distributions correlate more closely with input distributions, while termination points in dendrites are generally spread out more randomly with a close to uniform distribution. How are the model predictions validated? Answer: The model predictions are validated with connectome data.
Zinc deficiency increases susceptibility to bacterial infection. However, the role of dietary zinc intake in the control of bacterial infection is unclear. Here, we show that dietary zinc restriction enhances susceptibility to Streptococcus pneumoniae infection in mice, which correlates with increased bacterial burden in the lungs and pleural cavity. This is associated with decreased host zinc abundance in the lungs, which in turn compromises bacterial killing by phagocytic cells. These findings reveal a direct link between host zinc intake and resistance to pneumococcal infection, highlighting the importance of dietary zinc in host control of infection.
Previous studies have focused on antisense transcription initiating upstream of genes. Here, we investigate antisense transcription initiating downstream of gene promoters. We find that antisense transcription initiates at the downstream edge of promoter-associated features such as histone modifications, chromatin remodeling complexes, and transcription factor binding. Antisense transcription overlays with additional features such as promoter-associated CpG islands, transcription factor binding, and the downstream edge of promoter-associated CpG islands. Antisense transcription may be a promoter-specific feature with implications for gene expression regulation.
Dengue is the most important arthropod borne viral disease worldwide in terms of morbidity and mortality. In Brazil, the disease is an important public health problem associated with explosive epidemics. The confirmation of dengue fatal cases is always troublesome because in most of cases only one blood sample is obtained and the death occurred around defervescence when positive results of expensive and laborious techniques like viral isolation and viral RNA detection might be difficult. The dengue virological diagnosis in tissues specimens is also achieved by experienced personnel by immunohistochemistry. In the present work, three tests for NS1 antigen capture: Early ELISA test (PanBio), Platelia NS1 (BioRad) and the NS1 Ag Strip (BioRad) were evaluated in tissues of Brazilian fatal dengue cases and antigen detection was 34.7% (8/23), 60.8% (14/23) and 91.3% (21/23), respectively. The Early ELISA detected NS1 in 22.9% (17/74) of the samples evaluated and the Platelia NS1 in 45.9% (34/74). The highest sensitivity was obtained by the NS1 Ag Strip and the differences in the sensitivities were statistically significant (p<0.05).
In China, HIV testing rates are low among men who have sex with men (MSM). We developed a crowdsourced intervention to increase HIV testing among MSM in eight cities in Guangdong and Shandong provinces. We evaluated the effect of the intervention using a stepped wedge cluster randomized controlled trial. We recruited MSM through Blued, a social networking mobile application for MSM. We developed an intervention consisting of a multimedia HIV testing campaign, an online HIV testing service, and local testing promotion campaigns tailored for MSM. We then conducted a closed cohort stepped wedge cluster RCT in eight Chinese cities to evaluate the impact of this crowdsourced intervention compared to conventional programs routinely provided by local Centers for Disease Control (CDCs) and community-based organizations (CBOs). We found that the crowdsourced intervention was effective in promoting HIV testing compared to the control period, showing an 8.9% absolute increase (and a 43% relative increase) in HIV testing during the intervention period. The intervention was particularly useful in promoting HIV self-testing. Our study extends previous research on crowdsourcing by using it to develop a comprehensive HIV testing service, evaluating its effectiveness in a pragmatic trial, and assessing the long-term effect of the intervention.
Cytomegaloviruses (CMVs) encode viral proteins that can interfere with host immune responses, such as the CD48-expressing surface receptor 2B4, a cell surface receptor involved in the recognition of NK cells. Here, we report the identification of an owl monkey CMV encoded CD48 homologue, A43, that is secreted and able to bind human 2B4. A43 blocks the binding of 2B4 to its counter-receptor CD48 on the surface of infected cells, impairing NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity and IFN-γ production. Furthermore, A43 prevents NK cell adhesion to target cells and interferes with the formation of the mature NK cell immune synapse. Thus, our findings provide evidence for the existence of a novel mechanism of immune evasion by CMVs, in which viral proteins counteract the 2B4:CD48 axis.
Myelin is a specialized membrane organelle that surrounds axons in the central and peripheral nervous systems. The membrane is formed by oligodendrocytes and Schwann cells in the CNS and peripheral nervous system, respectively. The high lipid-to-protein ratio of the myelin membrane makes it vulnerable for lipid metabolism disorders, which can lead to demyelination. Here, we show that, in addition to endogenous lipid synthesis by oligodendrocytes, myelin synthesis also critically depends on extracellular lipids provided by astrocytes. Compromised lipid metabolism in oligodendrocytes leads to hypomyelination, which can be overcome structurally and functionally by a diet enriched in cholesterol and fatty acids. These data reveal that CNS myelin membrane synthesis not only requires endogenous oligodendrocyte lipid synthesis but also crucially depends on extracellular lipids provided by astrocytes.
Correlation patterns in multiple sequence alignments can be exploited to infer information about the three-dimensional structure of homologous proteins. In this work we show that contact prediction can be improved in three dimensions, or along the three dimensions of the predictive pipeline: data, model, and method. The first dimension is Data; it matters which MSA one uses as input to a DCA scheme. Continuing recent work of one of us [30] we show that in a large test data set MSAs built on HHblits alignments give more useful information than MSAs derived from the Pfam protein families database. The second dimension is Model; it matters which global model one tries to learn from an MSA, and it is possible to systematically improve upon the pairwise interaction models, or Potts models, which have hitherto been the focus of the field. This we show starting from the empirical observation that several DCA methods typically produce high-ranking false positives in parts of an alignment rich in gaps, and the simple fact that any subsequence of one of the same variable has low sequence entropy, and is thus unlikely to occur in random samples drawn from a Potts model, unless its model parameters take special values, i.e. unless at least some of them are quite large. We therefore enhance the Potts model by including terms depending on gaps of any length, much in the spirit of a simplified model for protein folding proposed long ago. In this way we are able to effectively reduce the false positive rate in gap-rich regions of the MSA over a large test data set of diverse proteins. The third dimension is Method. It is well known that DCA by learning a Potts model describing an MSA by exactly maximizing a likelihood function is computationally unfeasible for realistic protein sizes. Most DCA methods can therefore be seen as circumventing this fact, either by approximating the likelihood function, or by using a different (weaker) learning criterion. Here, we show that pseudo-likelihood based optimization methods, which have demonstrated the best performance among standalone methods, have the additional advantage of being flexible and easily adaptable to learning other models. This we show by including terms depending on gaps of any length in the score function optimized in the recently developed asymmetric version of the plmDCA algorithm [22], [24], resulting in a method we denote gplmDCA. We show that this new method gap-enhanced pseudo maximum-likelihood direct contact analysis (gplmDCA) uses as underlying inference engine the recently developed asymmetric pseudo maximum-likelihood [24] augmented by gap parameters, as described in Methods. The added gap parameters have the same status as the other parameters of the model, and the inference task posed by gplmDCA is formally the same as in plmDCA. The number of additional parameters is less than , with N being the length of a alignment, a small fraction of the number of parameters in Potts model based DCA. We have found that the computing time our new method gplmDCA is almost indistinguishable from the asymmetric version of plmDCA [24]. This introduction of gap parameters significantly alleviates a well-known negative trait of plmDCA – the presence of gap-induced artifacts in many contact maps. The reduction of strong, but spurious couplings in the inference process allows for the detection of other couplings, improving prediction qualitatively.
Hantaan virus (HTNV) is a zoonotic virus that can cause a severe hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS) in humans. The cellular immune response to HTNV infection is not well understood. The aim of this study was to identify the HLA class I-restricted HLA-peptide pentamer complex epitopes of the HTNV nucleoprotein and to investigate the function of HTNV epitope-specific CD8+ T cells. The HLA class I-restricted epitopes of the HTNV nucleoprotein were identified by peptide-HLA class I pentamer staining. The HTNV epitope-specific CD8+ T cells were identified by HLA class I/peptide tetramer staining. The HLA class I-restricted epitopes of the HTNV nucleoprotein were identified in four HFRS patients, and five novel epitopes were defined. The epitopes aa129–aa137, aa131–aa139, aa247–aa255, aa167–aa175, and aa277–aa285 were the novel epitopes restricted by HLA-A2 and B35, respectively. The epitope-specific CD8+ T cells were detected in 11 of 12 (91.7%) patients with mild/moderate HFRS and 7 of 13 (53.8%) patients with severe/critical HFRS at the earliest available acute stage time point. The frequency of epitope-specific CD8+ T cells at the acute stage was inversely associated with the peak level of serum creatinine and positively associated with the nadir of platelet counts during the hospitalization. The epitope-specific CD8+ T cells were characterized by the production of interferon-γ, expression of CD69, and the strong capacity of proliferation. The epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell response could predict the different outcomes of the disease. The epitope-specific CD8+ T cells were found to have a stronger capacity to proliferate and to secrete IFN-γ at the acute stage of the disease than at the late stage. Our results might provide new insights into understanding the relationship between single epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell response, CD8+ T-cell functional characters, and disease control in acute zoonotic HTNV infections in humans, which could be a rationale to explore immunotherapy as an adjunctive therapy in people with HFRS and will help to speed up the novel vaccine design process against the HTNV infection.
The 2014-2015 Ebola outbreak severely impacted the Guinean health system and affected the capacity of the sleeping sickness control program to perform active screening campaigns. We investigated the impact of Ebola on HAT screening activities in the three coastal Guinean focuses of Boffa, Dubreka and Forecariah. We used preexisting data collected between 2012 and 2015. No active screening campaigns could be performed during the Ebola outbreak. The number of persons tested passively decreased from 7 to 286 between April and September 2014 and abruptly decreased to 180 until January 2015 and then to none after March 2015. The proportion of patients initiating HAT treatment increased from 72% before Ebola to 28% during Ebola (p<0.0001). The proportion of patients attending the 3 months and 6 months post-treatment follow-up visits decreased significantly from 44% to 10% (p<0.0001) and from 16% to 3% (p=0.017), respectively. The number of persons screened passively increased from 180 to 286 between April and September 2014 and then decreased to 180 until January 2015 and finally to none after March 2015. The proportion of patients diagnosed at stage 1 of the disease decreased from 19% to 4% (p<0.0001) and the proportion of patients diagnosed at stage 2 of the disease increased from 57% to 97% (p<0.0001). The estimated Disability Adjusted Life-Years (DALYs) increased from 48.7 to 168.7, 284.9, and 466.3 assuming case fatality rates of 2%, 5%, and 10% among under-reported HAT cases, respectively. Our study suggests a major impact of the Ebola outbreak on HAT screening activities in the Western Africa most active focuses of Boffa, Dubreka and Forecariah in costal Guinea.
Schizophrenia is a complex psychiatric disorder that affects both men and women. However, the relative risk for women is significantly higher than for men. We performed a genome-wide association study using DNA pooling to identify sex-specific associations with schizophrenia. We identified a female-specific association with the rs7341475 SNP in the fourth intron of the reelin (RELN) gene. The female-specific association was replicated in four independent populations. The odds ratio for the G allele was 2.0 (p = 1.9 × 10−5) and the odds ratio for the GG genotype was 2.1 (p = 9.8 × 10−5) in women. The odds ratio for the G allele was 1.1 (p = 0.47) and the odds ratio for the GG genotype was 1.1 (p = 0.62) in men. The association with the rs7341475 SNP showed a significant gene-sex effect (p = 5.3 × 10−3). The estimated relative risk for women carrying the common genotype is 1.58. The female-specific association between RELN and schizophrenia is one of the few examples of a replicated sex-specific genetic association in any disease.
Candida albicans is a common opportunistic pathogen that can infect the human oral cavity, causing oral candidiasis. The pathogenesis of oral candidiasis is not well understood, and the factors responsible for this disease are still being identified. We therefore aimed to identify novel genes involved in oral infection using a combination of transcriptional profiling and functional characterization. We identified 12 previously uncharacterized genes and screened 11 of them for their role in oral infection. One gene, DUR31, was found to be required for oral epithelial cell damage, filamentous growth, and virulence in a murine model of hematogenously disseminated candidiasis. DUR31 encodes a predicted sodium substrate transporter with 13 transmembrane domains. This gene was exclusively upregulated during oral infection and was required for oral epithelial cell damage and hyphal formation. DUR31 also mediates the import of the antimicrobial peptide histatin 5 into C. albicans and is required for hyphal formation and survival of C. albicans in the kidneys of endpoint mice. Our data provide a comprehensive view of the roles of DUR31 during oral infection and reveal a novel mechanism of histatin 5 import.
The terminal differentiation of B cells in the immune response is essential for the production of high-affinity antibodies. The regulatory network controlling B cell differentiation has been poorly characterized and is not well understood. Here, we infer the regulatory network that controls the terminal differentiation of B cells from experimental data available in literature. We then construct two dynamical systems, one discrete and one continuous, to analyze the dynamical properties of the regulatory network. The discrete version of the B cell regulatory network was studied by exhaustively testing the behavior of the network from all possible initial conditions. The system reaches exactly four fixed point attractors, shown in Table 1. Notably, there is a one-to-one relation of these four attractors with the expression patterns of the cell types shown in Fig 1. We labeled the attractors as Naive, GC, Mem, and PC. It is important to remember that each attractor represents a different configuration pattern of the network at the steady state. Specifically, the first attractor, where the nodes Pax5 and Bach2 are active, can be interpreted as the activation pattern of Naive cells. The second attractor, with high levels of Bcl6, Pax5, and Bach2, corresponds to the GC cell type. The third attractor, with high levels of Irf4, Pax5, and Bach2, along with the absence of Bcl6 can be interpreted as the Mem cell fate. Finally, the fourth attractor, with high Blimp1, Irf4, and XBP1, corresponds to the pattern of the cell type PC (Fig 3). In the discrete version of the model, the set of initial states draining to the attractors, i.e., the basins of attraction, do not partition the state space evenly. The percentage of initial states leading to each of the attractors were as follows: Naive = 56.25%, GC = 6.25%, Mem = 6.25%, PC = 31.25%. The size of the basins reflects how an attractor can be attained from different initial states, therefore, different perturbations could be buffered and canalized by the network towards a particular steady state. Since the Naive and PC states have larger basins than that for GC or Mem attractors, it is possible to suggest that the former are relatively more stable than the later. The continuous dynamical system was found to have three additional attractors not reported in the literature. The dynamical behavior of the model is consistent with the known expression patterns for Naive, GC, Mem, and PC cell types. The model is also able to describe the differentiation pattern from Naive to any of the GC, Mem, or PC cell types in response to a specific set of extracellular signals. Moreover, the model predicts the existence of several interactions necessary for the network to ensure the proper pattern of terminal differentiation of B cells.
