Answer: The main purpose of the Artistoo library is to provide an interactive and accessible way to simulate and visualize cellular Potts models.
Renal macrophages play a crucial role in the kidney by regulating inflammation and tissue remodeling . However , little is known about the development and aging of renal macrophages . Here , we report that the proportion of yolk-sac-derived macrophages increases significantly in the kidney with age , with recruitment from the circulation and proliferation being two possible mechanisms . Our findings provide a foundation for future studies to investigate the functional heterogeneity of ontogenically distinct renal macrophages in younger versus aged kidneys .
Meningeal lymphatics have been described in rodents , but their existence in primates remains controversial . We used high-resolution clinical MRI to noninvasively visualize meningeal lymphatics in human and nonhuman primates . We identified lymphatic vessels within the dura mater , running parallel to blood vessels and alongside the superior sagittal and straight sinuses . The meningeal lymphatics resemble those of rodents in terms of their topography and lymphatic endothelial markers . Our findings provide the first evidence of meningeal lymphatic vessels in humans and nonhuman primates and demonstrate the feasibility of noninvasively imaging and mapping them in vivo .
The ureteric bud is a critical determinant of collecting duct establishment in the kidney. Here we examine the impact of nephrogenesis on the ureteric bud in the developing mouse kidney and find no evidence that nephrogenesis has any impact on the ureteric bud. We find that the ureteric bud is able to establish the collecting ducts of the adult organ via peripheral interactions with nephron progenitor cells, and that the branching program of the ureteric bud is not influenced by nephrogenesis.
Mon1-Ccz1 is a guanosine exchange factor that recruits the endosomal Rab7/Ypt7 GTPase to pre-autophagosomes . Here , we show that Mon1-Ccz1 recruits Atg8 to the pre-autophagosomal structure in a direct manner . Atg8 binding to Mon1-Ccz1 is essential for the recruitment of Ypt7 to pre-autophagosomes , and subsequently for autophagosome-lysosome fusion . Our findings reveal how a GEF can target a Rab GTPase to two different organelles .
Chromatin is the complex of DNA and proteins that packages the genome into a compact form that is accessible to the machinery of gene expression . Chromatin is composed of nucleosomes , which are the fundamental units of chromatin . Archaea are thought to lack nucleosomes . Here we show that nucleosomes are present in Archaea . The study demonstrates that the fundamental role of chromatin in the regulation of gene expression is ancient and not unique to eukaryotes .
In decision-making tasks , the sequence of decisions is typically studied in isolation , with little attention paid to the sequential nature of problem-solving tasks . Here , we examine the nature of hierarchical decision-making . In a previous study , we showed that evidence for multiple sub-decisions is integrated in parallel , indicating that the strategies are genuinely hierarchical . We show that the alternative explanation for hierarchical decision-making , flat models , does not account for the observed hierarchical decision-making . We conclude that hierarchical decision-making is a highly flexible process during which evidence can be integrated by separate accumulators , allowing subjects to adapt their strategy to the task at hand .
The study explores a deep cave in northern Italy about 14 ky cal BP. Photogrammetry, sedimentology, geochemistry, archeobotany, and ichnology were used. Five individuals were present in the cave, ranging in age from 3 to 14 years old. The findings demonstrate that very young children were active members of Upper Palaeolithic populations, even in potentially dangerous activities. The traces of crawling locomotion provide insight into the behavior and social relationships of early humans. The traces of crawling locomotion can reveal the presence of very young children.
The study investigates the effects of fatigue on motor-skill learning. The results show that fatigue impairs motor-skill learning beyond its effects on task execution. The study highlights the significance of fatigue in limiting motor-skill learning. The results can be applied in everyday life by avoiding training when fatigued and taking regular breaks to avoid overexertion. The findings suggest that training beyond fatigue levels may negatively impact long-term skill learning.
The main purpose of the study is to investigate the interactions between numerosity and motion direction in the brain. The study finds that visual motion direction adapts numerosity, giving rise to a repulsive aftereffect: motion to the left adapts small numbers, leading to overestimation of numerosity, while motion to the right adapts large numbers, resulting in underestimation. This adaptation effect is observed in the spatiotopic frame of reference, indicating that numerosity processing co-ops circuits that originally encode space. The results suggest that the recycled circuits retain their original functionality, and that the neural basis of numerosity perception is more complex than previously thought.
PDB is characterized by focal bone remodeling . The main cause of PDB remains unknown . To investigate the role of epigenetic factors in PDB , we performed DNA methylation profiling of 253 PDB patients and 280 controls . Meta-analysis of differentially methylated sites (DMS) revealed 14 DMS with false discovery rate (FDR) < 0 . 05 in the discovery set . Meta-analysis of differentially methylated regions (DMR) identified 111 DMR with FDR < 0 . 05 . The Best subset analysis identified 95 sites with the highest predictive ability . Many of these sites were located within or near genes with functional relevance to the pathogenesis of PDB . Our study provides new insights into the potential role of epigenetic mechanisms in PDB .
Bats use bio-sonar to navigate . The main focus of the proposed hypothesis in the paper is to investigate the role of echo signatures in place recognition in bats . The study suggests that echo signatures play an important role in navigation .
Phosphorylation site recognition is a critical step in the function of protein kinases . Understanding the molecular basis of phosphorylation site recognition is important for developing drugs that target PIKKs . Here , we present the first structure of a substrate-bound PIKK active site . The structure reveals the basis for phosphorylation site recognition , and explains the specificity for Ser-containing substrates with a glutamine downstream residue at position +1 and an upstream hydrophobic residue at position −1 .
The serine/threonine kinase mTOR is a master regulator of cellular metabolism . mTOR is activated by growth factors and is the target of the rapamycin inhibitor , an FDA-approved drug for the treatment of cancer and neurological disease . The architecture of the mTORC1 complex was recently resolved to 26 Å , however , the structure of mTORC2 remains unknown . We present the 3.4 Å structure of mammalian mTORC2 . The mTORC2 structure reveals that the accessory factors Rictor and SIN1 bind to the mTOR core via a conserved binding site . This study reveals the structural basis for the rapamycin insensitivity of mTORC2 .
BRCA1-deficient cells are often resistant to PARPis, but the mechanisms of resistance are not fully understood . Here , we show that the RecQ helicase and DNA2 are required for long-range resection of DNA double-strand breaks in S . pombe , but the RecQ helicase is not required for short-range resection . We find that 53BP1 and Rev7 inhibit long-range resection , but do not inhibit short-range resection . In BRCA1-deficient cells , loss of 53BP1 or Rev7 leads to a shift in the resection pathway from Exo1-dependent to RecQ helicase-dependent , and this shift is associated with a gain in resection rate . Our findings suggest that 'rewiring' of BRCA1-deficient cells to employ an Exo1-independent hyper-resection pathway is a driver of PARPi resistance .
The main objective of the study mentioned in the text is to assess the impact of a mass measles immunization campaign in India on mortality rates. Answer: The main objective of the study is to assess the impact of a mass measles immunization campaign in India on mortality rates. Question: How many deaths were observed in the Million Death Study? Answer: The Million Death Study observed 27,000 deaths among children under 5 years old. Question: How many households were included in the Million Death Study? Answer: 27,000 households. Question: What was the time period covered in the Million Death Study? Answer: The time period covered in the Million Death Study was from 2005 to 2013. Answer: The measles immunization campaign in India averted up to 56,000 deaths during 2010–13. Question: How many deaths were prevented by the campaign in the campaign states? Answer: The campaign prevented up to 41,000–56,000 deaths. Question: What was the impact of the campaign on the measles mortality rate in the campaign states? Answer: The campaign reduced the measles mortality rate by 27% in the campaign states. Question: How many campaign states were included in the study? Answer: The study included 16 campaign states. Answer: The campaign prevented up to 56,000 deaths in the entire country.
The focus of the study mentioned in the text is to investigate the use of deep sequencing for transmission dynamics in TB outbreaks. Answer: The focus of the study is to investigate the use of deep sequencing for transmission dynamics in TB outbreaks. Question: How many samples were sequenced in the study? Answer: The study sequenced 50 samples. Question: What type of sequencing was used in the study? Answer: Single-molecule real-time (SMRT) sequencing. Question: How many reads were generated per sample? Answer: The paper reports generating 50,000 reads per sample. Question: What was the resolution of the sequencing data? Answer: The sequencing data was at a resolution of ~500-1000x. Question: What was the resolution of the standard sequencing data in the study? Answer: The resolution of the standard sequencing data in the study was ~50x. Question: How many cases of TB were identified during the outbreak? Answer: The outbreak resulted in 50 cases of TB. Question: How many cases were sequenced in the study? Answer: The study sequenced 50 cases. Question: What percentage of the cases were sequenced using deep sequencing? Answer: The paper states that 35% of the cases were sequenced using deep sequencing. Question: What did the study find about the super-spreader in the TB outbreak? Answer: The study found that the super-spreader was a previously unknown strain that was responsible for a significant portion of the outbreak.
DLL1 and DLL4 are two ligands that are structurally and functionally similar but have distinct roles in development . Here , we show that the binding affinity of DLL1 and DLL4 for NOTCH1 and NOTCH2 differ , and that this difference in binding affinity affects their function in cell-based assays . In addition , we show that the ability of DLL1 and DLL4 to induce myogenesis in mice differs , and that this difference in myogenic function suggests that these ligands may have different roles in regulating the developmental process . Furthermore , we show that the binding affinity of DLL1 and DLL4 to NOTCH1 and NOTCH2 is encoded in the ligand ectodomains , and that ligand residues outside of the known binding interface contribute to context-dependent ligand function in vivo .
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is a key component of the outer membrane (OM) of Gram-negative bacteria . The main function of LPS is to shield the underlying peptidoglycan cell wall . The outer membrane provides a protective barrier against antibiotics and host immune cells . The OM is formed by the insertion of LPS molecules into a lipid bilayer . The OM is essential for the pathogenesis of Gram-negative bacteria . Here we show that a mutation in the gene for O-antigen ligase (WaaL) in Escherichia coli leads to the production of a modified LPS molecule (LPS*). LPS* is transported to the cell surface through the OM and confers increased vancomycin resistance . The modified LPS molecule serves as a molecular decoy that titrates vancomycin away from its intracellular target . The effect of LPS* on the bacterial cell wall is to fuse the bacterial cell wall and the outer membrane . The potential role of LPS* in the pathogenesis of Gram-negative bacteria is discussed .
GCC185 is a Golgin required for the transport of mannose 6-phosphate receptors from late endosomes to the trans Golgi network . We have purified GCC185 and used atomic force microscopy to show that it is shorter than predicted and contains a central bubble and a floppy region , which are not present in the Golgi surface . We show that the floppy region of GCC185 is required for its ability to capture transport vesicles . The mechanism of vesicle tethering by GCC185 is not specified in the paper . The flexibility of GCC185 allows it to capture and tether transport vesicles .
The main challenge in analyzing root biology is the difficulty in imaging the root system in a way that captures its dynamic and complex nature. Here we present a system called Growth and Luminescence Observatory for Roots (GLO-Roots) that enables studies of root architecture and gene expression patterns in soil-grown, light-shielded roots. GLO-Roots is an integrated system composed of custom growth vessels, luminescent reporters, and imaging systems. We use rhizotrons that have soil volumes equivalent to small pots and support growth of Arabidopsis from germination to senescence . To visualize roots , we designed plant–codon-optimized luciferase reporters that allow various aspects of root biology to be tracked in living plants . We have built a custom luminescence-imaging system that automatically captures images of rhizotrons held vertically and the signal from each reporter is distinguished using band-pass filters held in a motorized filter wheel . We have also developed GLO-RIA , an ImageJ plugin that allows for automated determination of root system architecture and other traits using GLO-Roots . Overall GLO-Roots has great utility in presenting environmental stimuli to roots in physiologically relevant ways and provides tools for characterizing responses to such stimuli at the molecular level in whole-adult root systems over broad time scales .
Protein function is fine-tuned by localization in the cell. Here we use single-molecule FRET to directly observe the regulation of proteins in living cells . We show that conformational confinement by crowding is an important mechanism for protein regulation . We find that the A577I point mutation , a cochaperone interaction , and crowding have very similar steady-state distributions , but cause different conformational kinetics and functional effects . These findings demonstrate that protein function is regulated by localization in the cell and that conformational confinement plays a critical role in protein regulation .
Transcript errors, which are 3 to 4 orders of magnitude more frequent than genetic mutations, are a major mechanism for gene regulation . However , the molecular spectrum of transcript errors in bacteria remains largely unknown . Here we used a whole-transcriptome sequencing approach to detect transcript errors in four species of bacteria . We found that the transcript-error rates in Escherichia coli , Bacillus subtilis , Agrobacterium tumefaciens , and Mesoplasma florum are 100-fold , 1.67 × 10^-6 , 1 in 1000 , and 1.82±0.01 errors per nucleotide , respectively . We also found that the molecular spectrum of transcript errors is highly varied and complex . Furthermore , a transition/transversion bias of genetic mutations holds true for transcript errors , which may be caused by the error-prone RNA polymerase in M . florum . Our work provides a comprehensive view of the molecular spectrum of transcript errors in bacteria and reveals a mechanism for quality control in prokaryotes .
The kinase PINK1 is a neurodegenerative protein kinase that is involved in the regulation of protein degradation in Tribolium castaneum . In human cells , PINK1 is a key regulator of mitophagy and is mutated in the majority of familial Parkinson's disease cases . Here , we report the crystal structure of the Tribolium castaneum PINK1 orthologue , TcPINK1 . TcPINK1 adopts a unique structure containing several insertions that are not found in other kinases . The insertions of TcPINK1 are important for its catalytic activity and substrate recognition , and together with autophosphorylation of Ser205 , contribute to ubiquitin and Parkin Ubl phosphorylation . Mutations in TcPINK1 that disrupt its function are conserved in human PINK1 and provide molecular insights into the structural basis of PINK1-mediated Parkinson's disease .
Sex pheromones are used for mate attraction and recognition in insects . Sex pheromone receptors ( PRs ) are odorant receptor ( OR ) subfamilies tuned to female-emitted type I pheromones . Here , we identify a moth PR that does not belong to the odorant receptor ( OR ) subfamily dedicated to type I pheromones . The identified OR , SlitOR5 , is expressed in antennae of the noctuid moth Spodoptera littoralis and is responsible for the detection of the major component of the S . littoralis female pheromone blend . SlitOR5 is a member of a distinct early diverging lineage of ORs , harboring numerous sex-biased ORs from distinct moth families . This finding suggests that lepidopteran PRs have evolved at least twice in Lepidoptera , which offers a more detailed and complex panorama on moth PR evolution .
Locomotion modulates sensory responses in the primary visual cortex ( V1 ) . The role of locomotion-related modulation in V1 is still unclear . Here , we show that locomotion increases the activity of excitatory neurons and inhibitory neurons during visual stimulation . Our results indicate that locomotion-dependent responses of inhibitory neurons are not solely mediated by the inhibition of somatostatin neurons , as previously suggested . Instead , our results suggest that locomotion-dependent responses of inhibitory neurons are mediated by multiple pathways . We suggest that neuromodulatory inputs triggered by locomotion would not only activate VIP neurons through nicotinic acetylcholine receptors as previously shown , but would also directly activate PV , SST , and excitatory neurons .
Transcription factors regulate gene expression by controlling the rate of transcription . The molecular mechanism of transcription factor binding is not well understood . Here we have investigated the thermodynamic properties of the interactions between transcription factors and their DNA sequences . We have solved the structure of two homeodomain proteins , HOXB13 and CDX2 , each bound to two distinct high-affinity sequences . The optimal sequences for HOXB13 are CCAATAAA and CTCGTAAA that differ from each other by the three underlined base pairs , whereas CDX2 binds with high affinity to similar two sequences that begin with a G instead of a C . Our thermodynamic measurements show that the enthalpy of binding of HOXB13 to the CAA sequence is higher than the TCG sequence , indicating that the CAA sequence is bound primarily due to an optimal enthalpic contribution , whereas the TCG sequence is bound due to an optimal entropy contribution . These results suggest that the molecular mechanism of transcription factor binding involves the enthalpy and entropy changes of the interactions .
Clonal populations of bacteria can control their environment through state-switching , a mechanism for the dynamic and environmentally-sensitive control of metabolic specialization . Here , we show that clonal populations of Bacillus subtilis can specialize their metabolism , and that this metabolic specialization is accompanied by the emergence of distinct subpopulations with different metabolic states . We show that these subpopulations are linked to the production and detoxification of acetate , and that they are characterized by distinct growth rates and dynamic interconversion between states . Our results provide new insights into the functions and coordinated dynamics of clonal populations .
The main cause of systemic amyloidosis in patients is the overproduction of immunoglobulin light chains ( LCs ) . The LCs form amyloid fibrils in patients' tissues , leading to systemic amyloidosis , a lethal disease . The amyloid fibrils are formed through an initial dimerization step . LC homo-dimers are the minimal and essential unit for fibril assembly . The cavity between the two VL domains in Mcg is capable of binding a wide array of ligands , including synthetic organic molecules and peptides . We identify ligands that may serve as prototypes for therapies for treating LC amyloidosis and our results are consistent with a mechanism for amyloidosis that proceeds via dimer disassociation to amyloid-prone monomers .
The mechanisms driving aberrant gene expression in cancer cells are not fully understood . Here , we analyzed a large dataset of tumor and normal matched kidney cancer ( ccRCC ) samples from The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) . We show that transcription read-through is a common mechanism in ccRCC and correlates with poor patient survival . We also reveal that impaired transcription termination leads to the invasion of neighboring genes . In addition , we find that the anti-apoptotic oncogene BCL2 is over-expressed in ccRCC tumors and correlates with the volume of transcription read-through on the upstream gene . We further find recurrent RNA chimeras in ccRCC that combine sequences from two tandem genes . Such chimeras are generated following extensions of RNAPII beyond the annotated gene boundaries and invasion of an adjacent gene as a result of impaired transcription termination . Our findings reveal a novel link between transcription read-through and the deregulation of cancer genes .
The development of nephron progenitors is critical for the formation of functional kidneys . Here , we demonstrate that R-spondins are essential for the maintenance of nephron progenitors during kidney development . Deletion of R-spondin1/3 leads to a reduction in nephrons , a loss of differentiation and a failure of mesenchyme to epithelial transition (MET) . R-spondins act in an LGR-independent manner in nephron progenitors and are required to activate canonical WNT/β-catenin signalling . Our findings provide new insights into the role of R-spondins in the regulation of nephrogenesis and suggest that changes in R-spondin function may be associated with renal disorders .
Melanoma cells are known to metastasize to lymph nodes ( LNs ) . However , the mechanisms of LN metastasis are not well understood . Here , we show that pioneer metastatic cells in LNs interact with Siglec1-expressing subcapsular sinus ( SCS ) macrophages to initiate metastasis . We demonstrate that the interaction between Siglec1-expressing macrophages and pioneer metastatic cells promotes their proliferation and colonization in the SCS . We further show that the interaction between Siglec1 and cancer cells promotes cell cycle progression and proliferation . Finally , we show that St3gal3 , a sialyltransferase involved in α-2 , 3-linked sialylation , is required for the growth advantage of pioneer metastatic cells . Our findings suggest that targeting Siglec1 may help prevent melanoma metastasis .
Sleep plays a role in refining brain circuitry during development , but the mechanisms by which sleep regulates early brain development are unknown . Here , we develop a tractable larval system to study sleep and neurogenesis in Drosophila larvae . We show that larvae exhibit periods of reversible behavioral quiescence , characterized by a change in posture and increased arousal threshold , with homeostatic properties . We identify the dopamine neurotransmitter octopamine as a key regulator of larval sleep , and show that larval sleep loss is associated with reduced neurogenesis . Our findings suggest that sleep plays a critical role in regulating the proliferation of neural stem cells during early development .
Replicative helicases are hexameric ring-shaped motor proteins that translocate on and unwind DNA . Here , we use a single-molecule FRET assay to study the mechanism of DNA unwinding by G40P , a hexameric helicase from phage SPP1 . G40P unwinds duplex DNA in the presence of GC base pairs with a single base pair step size . G40P slips backward along the DNA during unwinding . The stalling events can be explained by a concerted ATP hydrolysis mechanism . The slippage events can be reduced by keeping some nucleotides bound during each translocation step . In the presence of DnaG , a host primase that stimulates unwinding activity of G40P , the slippage rate increases . The presence of ATPγS , a slowly hydrolysable analogue of ATP , significantly slows down the unwinding rate . Our data show that G40P unwinds DNA in a single base pair step size and provide insight into the mechanism of DNA unwinding by a helicase .
Homologous recombination is believed to have played a major role in the evolution of organisms . However , little is known about the occurrence of homologous recombination in animal mitochondrial DNA . Here , we show that homologous recombination is widespread in animal mitochondrial DNA and that it can be induced by double-strand breaks . We also show that homologous recombination can occur in somatic tissues .
The Ras superfamily GTPases are key regulators of membrane identity and vesicle transport . The Rab GTPases are a subfamily of Ras-related GTPases that play diverse roles in membrane trafficking . In the Ras family , nucleotide exchange is promoted by a conserved glutamate intrinsic to the switch II region . In contrast , the switch II region of Rabs is required for GDP-release . Here , we show that different GDP-release pathways are used by different Rabs , and that the switch II glutamine is required for both GEF-mediated nucleotide exchange and GAP-stimulated GTP hydrolysis . The results reveal plasticity in GDP-release mechanisms among Rabs , and suggest that they may have diverse functions .
The role of pathogen variation in tuberculosis transmission is poorly understood . We constructed a whole genome sequencing transmission network from 1687 patients in Malawi over 15 years . We show striking differences between lineages in cluster size , the proportion of disease due to recent transmission and transmissibility . Lineage-1 strains were the least likely to have disease due to recent transmission and were less likely to transmit and cause new cases than those with lineages 2 or 3 . The proportion of disease due to recent transmission decreased from 46% to 30% , and the proportion of cases transmitting and giving rise to new cases of tuberculosis also fell markedly . The transmission network provides important information on the role of pathogen variation in tuberculosis transmission .
Magnitude is a fundamental aspect of human learning , but the neural representations of magnitude are unknown . Here , we show that the neural representations of reward probability are structurally aligned with the abstract concept of magnitude . During a probabilistic reward-guided learning task , stimuli with high payout probability shared a neural code with larger numbers , and those with lower value shared a neural code with lower numbers . Our findings suggest that an abstract neural code for magnitude forms a conceptual basis set or ‘scaffold’ for learning new information , such as the reward probabilities associated with novel stimuli .
The main hypothesis regarding Alzheimer’s disease ( AD ) is that Aβ deposition leads to cognitive decline . The amyloid hypothesis suggests that Aβ deposition is linked to increased neural activity . Here , we investigated the relationship between hippocampal activity and Aβ deposition in cognitively normal older adults . Participants underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI ) and Pittsburgh Compound-B positron emission tomography ( PIB-PET ) imaging . We found that greater hippocampal activity was associated with increased Aβ deposition . Furthermore , Aβ deposition mediated the influence of hippocampal activation on memory decline . These results support the proposed model regarding the role of hippocampal activation in linking Aβ deposition and memory decline .
The molecular mechanisms underlying drug addiction are not fully understood . Dynamic gene expression is a key feature of drug addiction . Here , we investigate the transcriptional dynamics in the brain following cocaine exposure , and identify the striatum as a hub of dynamic gene expression . We find that the striatum is enriched for dynamic gene expression programs , and that the expression of the immediate-early gene Egr2 is dampened following repeated cocaine exposure . We further demonstrate that selective inhibition of Egr2 expression in the ventrolateral striatum ( VLS ) supports the development of cocaine-seeking behavior . Our results provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying drug addiction and have implications for the development of novel drugs that can prevent drug addiction .
Chimeric antigen receptors ( CARs ) are synthetic receptors that reprogram T cells to kill cancer . CARs are engineered to bind to specific cancer antigens and trigger T cell activation . Here , we report a family of CARs that activate phagocytosis of cancer cells . We engineered phagocytes that recognize and ingest targets through specific antigen-mediated interactions . This strategy can be directed towards multiple antigens and can be used with several intracellular signaling domains that contain ITAM motifs . Our results demonstrate that the CAR approach is transferrable to biological processes beyond T cell activation and that the expression of an engineered receptor in phagocytic cells is sufficient to promote specific engulfment and elimination of cancer cells .
Neutrophilic inflammation is central to chronic inflammatory diseases , yet there is currently no effective treatment strategy to resolve this cellular mechanism . Using parallel unbiased screening approaches in vitro and in vivo , we identify ErbB family kinases as potential therapeutic targets to reverse inflammation in inflammatory conditions . Neutrophil apoptosis is accelerated by ErbB kinase inhibitors , leading to reduced inflammation in zebrafish tail injury models and in murine models of peritoneal and airway inflammation . These findings reveal an opportunity for the use of ErbB inhibitors as a treatment for chronic neutrophilic inflammatory disease .
The focus of the study is to predict life expectancy in 18 European countries. The study developed a mortality projection methodology that integrates the effects of smoking , obesity , and alcohol on mortality . The methodology is based on a coherent projection of non-smoking-related mortality , while taking into account the mortality experiences of other countries . The mortality projections resulted in higher life expectancy values than those estimated by the benchmark Lee–Carter mortality projection and the official mortality forecasts by Eurostat and the United Nations . The findings suggest that life expectancy in Europe will increase , which could lead to more elderly people in society .
To identify genetic variants associated with human lifespan , we carried out a genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) of parental lifespan in UK Biobank , a UK-based population cohort of 1 million individuals . We found 12 genome-wide significant associations with lifespan , including three variants associated with increased lifespan and three variants associated with decreased lifespan . We also replicated six previously discovered longevity variants . Our results identify lifespan-associated variants enriched for lipid metabolism genes , and provide evidence for antagonistic pleiotropy of variants near ATXN2/BRAP , CDKN2B-AS1 , FURIN/FES , and ATXN2/BRAP . We also find evidence that disease variants are associated with lifespan , but explain only a small proportion of lifespan variance . Finally , we use polygenic risk scores to show that genetic variants associated with lifespan explain a significant proportion of the genetic variation in lifespan across the deciles , and that polygenic risk scores are associated with increased prevalence of diseases , while decreasing prevalence of diseases .
H-NS is a key regulator of gene expression in Gram-negative bacteria . However , the molecular mechanism underlying its regulatory function is unclear . Here , we show that H-NS is incapable of bridging or stiffening DNA as dimers . Instead , H-NS dimers bind DNA in cis , and assemble side-by-side along DNA , leading to DNA stiffening . H-NS can be ‘activated’ by Mg2+ , which promotes a conformational change , rendering both DNA-binding domains accessible for DNA bridging . Our findings reveal that H-NS is incapable of bridging or stiffening DNA as dimers . Instead , H-NS dimers bind DNA in cis , and assemble side-by-side along DNA , leading to DNA stiffening .
Somitogenesis , the formation of somites , is a critical step in human spine development . However , the molecular and morphological features of somite formation have not been fully recapitulated in human cell culture systems . Here , we describe the development of a human paraxial mesoderm ( PM ) organoid system , called Somitoids , that faithfully recapitulates the developmental trajectory of PM in vitro . We identify optimal culture conditions for Somitoids , which involve the initial aggregation of 500 hiPSCs , followed by treatment with modulators of the WNT and FGF signaling pathways . Somitoids exhibit somite-like structures , which are morphologically and molecularly similar to their in vivo counterparts . Importantly , we show that Somitoids can give rise to downstream PM derivatives , including sclerotome and dermomyotome . Our Somitoid system provides a versatile platform for studying the molecular networks underlying human somitogenesis and the mechanisms of human spine development .
The purpose of the study was to investigate how booster doses and prior infection influence the immune defense elicited by mRNA vaccines against SARS-CoV-2 . The study used CyTOF to assess the phenotypes of SARS-CoV-2-specific T cells from 33 longitudinal specimens from 11 mRNA-vaccinated individuals , six of whom had previously contracted and recovered from COVID-19 . In infection-naïve individuals , vaccination elicited a robust SARS-CoV-2-specific T cell response that was boosted by the second vaccine dose , but in convalescent individuals the second dose did not change the T cell response . Furthermore , the phenotypes of SARS-CoV-2-specific T cells from infection-naïve individuals differed from those from convalescent individuals after the second vaccine dose . These findings suggest that convalescent individuals may be able to mount a more robust immune response to emerging viral variants and that a second vaccine dose may not be necessary for convalescents .
Ral GTPases are downstream effectors of Ras , but their roles in human cancers remain largely unknown . Here we show that RalB is a key regulator of cell invasion and metastasis . We found that RalB is required for the recruitment of Wave Regulatory Complex ( WRC ) at the leading edge of the cell , driving protrusions and motility . Inhibition of RalB decreased the invasive capabilities of breast cancer cells . We propose that the pharmacological inhibition of the here established Ras-RalB-exocyst-WRC pathway holds promises as anticancer strategy and definitely warrants further investigations .
The pentose phosphate pathway is the primary pathway for glucose metabolism in the heart . We show that the inhibition of cardiomyocyte maturation by maternal hyperglycemia is mediated by the pentose phosphate pathway and the metabolism of nucleotides . Our findings highlight the importance of blood glucose in heart development and suggest that maternal diabetes may contribute to congenital heart disease .
The 7SK snRNP complex is a barrier that prevents the release of the positive transcription elongation factor b ( P-TEFb ) from the RNA polymerase II ( Pol II ) complex . JMJD6 is a cofactor that recruits P-TEFb to the CTD of Pol II . Here , we report that JMJD6 is a novel protease that cleaves MePCE of the 7SK snRNP complex , which in turn releases P-TEFb from the 7SK snRNP complex . We further show that JMJD6 and BRD4 are required for P-TEFb to be recruited to the CTD of Pol II . Our data provide evidence that JMJD6 is a key factor in the release of P-TEFb from the 7SK snRNP complex and in the phosphorylation of Ser2-CTD of Pol II .
The myelodysplastic syndromes ( MDSs ) are clonal stem cell disorders characterized by ineffective hematopoiesis . Deletions of chromosome 7 ( −7 ) and monosomy 7 ( 7q ) are highly prevalent acquired cytogenetic abnormalities in MDS patients and are associated with expansion of myeloid progenitors . Here , we demonstrate that a haploinsufficient deletion of the long-arm 5A3 interval in mice perturbs hematopoiesis , including expansion of HSC and myeloid progenitors . Deletion of 5A3 causes defective lymphoid repopulation and impairs myeloid differentiation . The 5A3 deletion also causes age-associated expansion of HSC and myeloid progenitors . These data support a role for chromosome 7 deletions in MDS pathogenesis .
The emergence of Pfk13 C580Y in the Guiana Shield is a major concern for malaria control efforts in South America .
Single-particle tracking ( SPT ) is an increasingly popular method for studying protein dynamics inside cells . However , SPT data can be biased by experimental design , imaging , and analysis . Here , we describe a web-interface for inferring protein diffusion and subpopulations from pooled SPT data . Spot-On accounts for experimental design biases , minimizes analysis biases , and outperforms other methods . Spot-On is available as a web-interface and Python/Matlab packages .
Alexander disease ( AxD ) is caused by mutations in the glial fibrillary acidic protein ( GFAP ) gene . The disease is characterized by the accumulation of mutant GFAP in cytoplasmic aggregates . Here , we show that GFAP missense mutations ( affecting over 70 different residues on GFAP ) promote GFAP accumulation and aggregation by selectively phosphorylating the GFAP Ser13 residue . We further demonstrate that this phosphorylation event correlates with the presence of caspase-6 , a new marker for the most severe form of human AxD . Our study reveals a novel signature of post-translational modifications ( PTMs ) in the severe form of AxD .
The circumsporozoite protein ( CSP ) of Plasmodium berghei is the most abundant protein on the surface of sporozoites and is necessary for parasite development in mosquitoes and establishment of infection in host hepatocytes . Neutralizing antibodies against CSP are highly effective in preventing sporozoite infection , but their mechanism of action remains poorly understood . We investigated the molecular mechanisms of inhibition of Plasmodium berghei sporozoites by mAb 3D1 , a well-characterized CSP-targeting antibody . We demonstrate that mAb 3D1 recognizes the PbCSP repeat region through hydrogen bonds and hydrophobic interactions , and that it induces structural ordering of PbCSP into a spiral conformation using homotypic interactions . Our findings provide insight into the evolution of antibodies against CSP repeats and highlight the importance of the antibody response against PbCSP in the development of effective malaria vaccines .
We have designed and constructed a high-resolution objective lens for multi-wavelength optical microscopy that can image the entire volume of an optically-cleared mouse embryo with sub-cellular resolution and can be used with a variety of imaging techniques . The Mesolens have a numerical aperture of 0 . 47 and a working distance of 3 mm , which is sufficient to image thick tissue specimens . We demonstrate the capabilities of the Mesolens by imaging 10 day old mouse embryos with sub-cellular resolution throughout their entire volume . The Mesolens can also be used for two-colour imaging , and for imaging large volumes of tissue with a single image .
Bacteriophages are viruses that infect bacteria . The DNA of bacteriophages mimics the DNA of the bacteria that they infect . The DNA mimicry of bacteriophages is thought to be a mechanism by which bacteriophages inhibit the host transcription . The DNA mimicry of bacteriophage T7 inhibits host transcription by binding to the host RNA polymerase ( RNAP ) . Here we show that the DNA mimicry of T7 inhibits host transcription by directly binding to RNAP . Our structural biology work shows that Ocr , the DNA mimicry protein of T7 , binds to RNAP at the RNAP cleft . The two structures of Ocr reveal the mechanism by which Ocr inhibits host transcription . Our work thus reveals the detailed molecular mechanisms of how Ocr could potentially affect the host through inhibiting transcription in addition to its role in knocking out host restriction and modification . These new structural details of RNAP-Ocr complexes allow comparisons with known transcription initiation complexes and other phage proteins suggesting new avenues to be exploited for inhibiting bacterial transcription and combating antibiotic resistance .
Mutations in the TUBB4A gene cause Hypomyelination with Atrophy of Basal Ganglia and Cerebellum (H-ABC) , a rare leukodystrophy . We have generated a knock-in mouse model of the TUBB4A p . Asp249Asn ( D249N ) mutation to study the pathogenesis of H-ABC . Homozygous mice show severe neurodegeneration , progressive loss of motor function , and gait abnormalities . We find that the mutation causes a significant loss of oligodendrocytes , resulting in severe hypomyelination , and demyelination of the spinal cord and optic nerves . Tubb4a mutations in the mouse model affect microtubule dynamics in cortical neurons and oligodendrocytes in vitro , leading to decreased neuronal survival and axonal elongation . Our results provide a comprehensive understanding of the pathogenesis of H-ABC and highlight the importance of studying rare genetic disorders using animal models .
The role of Kir2.1 channels in cerebral blood flow is unknown . Here we show that Kir2.1 channels are hyperpolarizing channels that are inhibited by phosphatidylinositol 4 , 5-bisphosphate ( PIP2 ) . GqPCR agonists promote PIP2 depletion , which in turn relieves PIP2-mediated Kir2.1 channel inhibition . Conversely , GqPCR agonists inhibit TRPV4 channels by depleting PIP2 , thereby facilitating TRPV4 channel activation . We conclude that GqPCR-mediated PIP2 depletion modulates the balance between hyperpolarizing and depolarizing signaling modalities in the capillary endothelium .
Sporulation in Bacillus subtilis is a complex process that involves the engulfment of a forespore by a mother cell . The mother cell engulfs the forespore by forming a thin membrane that encircles the forespore . The mother cell membrane is not completely degraded during engulfment , but instead is tethered to the forespore membrane by SpoIIDMP . The SpoIIDMP complex is required to tether the mother cell membrane to the forespore membrane , which is necessary for the mother cell to advance around the forespore . Here , we use cryo-electron tomography coupled with cryo-focused ion beam milling to visualize the architecture of engulfing sporangia in Bacillus subtilis . We show that the mother cell membrane is not completely degraded at the onset of engulfment . We also show that the mother cell membrane advances around the forespore by forming finger-like projections that are tethered to the forespore membrane . Finally , we show that SpoIIDMP is required to form these finger-like projections .
Monitoring protein activity in real time is essential for understanding the molecular mechanisms of biological processes . Electrophysiological recordings are the most common technique for monitoring protein activity . However , the main purpose of electrophysiological recordings is to monitor protein activity in label-free manner . The serotonin transporter ( SERT ) is one of the membrane proteins , which is involved in the regulation of serotonin levels in the nervous system . In this study , we developed a new method to monitor ligand binding to surface proteins in real time and in a label-free manner . We applied the Gouy-Chapman model to predict the changes in membrane capacitance ( CM ) elicited by charged ligands . The predictions were validated by recording the displacement currents and the changes in apparent CM . We also explored the effect of ligands on the membrane capacitance . Our findings demonstrate that electrophysiological recordings can be used to monitor protein activity in real time and in a label-free manner .
Nitrogen metabolism is not well understood in Mycobacterium tuberculosis , the causative agent of human tuberculosis . Amino acids have been shown to be important nitrogen sources during infection , but little is known about how M . tuberculosis utilizes them . We performed a parallel analysis of amino acid uptake and metabolism , and used position-specific labelled amino acids to investigate nitrogen metabolism in M . tuberculosis . We show that M . tuberculosis can uptake all 20 proteinogenic amino acids , and that a number of amino acids can be stored in the bacterium . This results in a significant increase in intracellular pool size . We also show that M . tuberculosis can utilize all nitrogen sources tested , including amino acids . This is in contrast to the widely held belief that M . tuberculosis can only utilize ammonium as sole nitrogen source . Our results also reveal that amino acids are superior nitrogen sources to NH4+ , and that M . tuberculosis metabolic network is highly evolved to use very well a number of nitrogen sources .
Influenza viruses accumulate large numbers of mutations during long-term infections within immunocompromised hosts . However , the evolutionary dynamics of these infections differ from the evolution at the global scale . Here , we deep-sequence four immunocompromised patients infected with H3N2 influenza for over a decade , revealing a small set of mutations that recur repeatedly within individual patients , across multiple patients , and at the global scale . We find that the evolutionary dynamics of these mutations mirror those at the global scale , suggesting that evolutionary pressures operate on a global scale , but also within individual hosts .
Toxoplasma gondii is an intracellular parasite that infects a wide range of warm-blooded hosts , including birds and rodents . The neuronal impact of this latent infection is not understood . Here , we used a Cre-based mouse model to extend our understanding of neuron-Toxoplasma interactions . We found that neurons injected with Toxoplasma protein outnumber cysts by over 20-fold and are most abundant in the cortex and striatum . Within the cortex and striatum , we found that neurons expressing the transcription factor FoxP2 are co-localized with Toxoplasma-injected neurons . Electrophysiologic studies revealed that striatal TINs , but not bystander neurons , had highly aberrant membrane potentials and did not fire action potentials unless artificially hyperpolarized . These findings suggest that neurons interacted with Toxoplasma have highly abnormal electrophysiology and most will die over a relatively short period .
Cholinergic projections to the thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN) are thought to play important roles in the regulation of sleep . However , the specific behavioral roles of cholinergic inputs to the TRN are unclear . Here we show that the activation of cholinergic neurons in transgenic mice shortens sleep onset time and increases the duration of non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep . Optical stimulation of cholinergic inputs to the TRN evokes spindle oscillations , which are critical for promoting sleep onset and stabilizing sleep . Local optogenetic stimulation of α7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (α7-nAChRs ) in the TRN is sufficient to elicit spindle oscillations and promote sleep onset and sleep duration . These results demonstrate a critical role of cholinergic inputs to the TRN in promoting sleep onset and protecting sleep .
Adding aquatic animals to rice fields may enhance food production and promote decomposition . Here we show that crop-aquatic animal coculture increased rice yield , increased nutrient use efficiency , and maintained soil nitrogen content . The main objective of the study is to investigate the effectiveness of crop-aquatic animal coculture in improving food production , nutrient use efficiency , and soil health . Three field experiments and three mesocosm experiments were conducted . The results show that crop-aquatic animal coculture increased rice yield and nutrient use efficiency and maintained soil nitrogen content . The aquatic animals promoted organic matter decomposition and increased nutrient availability for rice plants . The unconsumed or unassimilated feed-N can be utilized by rice plants , which increases N-use efficiency .
Dopamine signals reward in animal brains . Here , we identify a recurrent dopamine reward circuit that is essential for appetitive long-term olfactory memory ( LTM ) formation in Drosophila . This circuit consists of the protocerebral anterior medial ( PAM ) cluster dopamine neurons and a single mushroom body output neuron ( MBON-α1 ) . The output of MBON-α1 is required for the acquisition and consolidation of LTM . The recurrent circuit may provide a circuit mechanism for the gradual development of appetitive LTM .
Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) establishes latency in monocytes and hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells ( HSPCs ) . We used single cell RNA-seq to investigate the mechanisms of HCMV latency in monocytes and HSPCs . We found that viral transcript levels were inversely correlated with CD74 expression and viral transcript levels . Sorting monocytes according to CD74 expression allowed us to enrich for cells carrying higher viral transcript levels and viral genome load . Reactivation from latency was more efficient in CD74low monocytes . In HSPCs , viral transcript levels were only detected in cells expressing monocyte lineage markers and viral transcripts were only detected in cells expressing CD74 . These findings indicate that the ability of monocytes and HSPCs to reactivate is associated with viral transcript expression and that the cells carrying higher viral loads in these models are functionally the latent cell population .
The main objective of the study is to identify autoantigens in autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type 1 (APS1) and investigate their role in disease pathogenesis. APS1 is an autoimmune syndrome caused by monogenic mutations in the AIRE gene that result in defects in AIRE-dependent T cell education in the thymus . People with APS1 develop autoimmunity to multiple organs , including endocrine organs , skin , gut , and lung . The study identifies a collection of novel APS1 autoantigens as well as numerous known , literature-reported APS1 autoantigens . The novel autoantigens may carry important implications for poorly understood clinical manifestations such as intestinal dysfunction , ovarian insufficiency , and tooth enamel hypoplasia , where underlying cell-type specific antigens have remained enigmatic . Together , our results demonstrate the applicability of PhIP-Seq to antigen discovery , substantially expand the spectrum of known antibody targets and clinical associations in APS1 , and point towards novel specificities that can be targeted in autoimmunity .
The naive state of pluripotency is the first state of pluripotency in embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and is a prerequisite for their primed state . The naive state is evolutionarily conserved in mammals but has not been confirmed in other amniotes . We have used the zebra finch , a non-mammalian amniote , to study the significance of the naive state of pluripotency . The finch embryo at oviposition is equivalent to the mouse blastocyst stage when ESCs can be derived . We find that pluripotency markers are expressed in the finch blastoderm at oviposition . Moreover , finch blastodermal cells are able to retain pluripotency in vitro even in the absence of the extracellular receptor kinase (Erk) pathway , a feature of mouse ESCs . Our data thus suggest that the finch blastoderm at oviposition is likely to correspond to the naive stage of embryogenesis .
Sphingosine-1-phosphate ( S1P ) plays a critical role in cellular signaling . It regulates various cellular processes including embryonic development . Two enzymes , sphingosine kinases Sphk1 and Sphk2 , generate S1P . In zebrafish embryos , loss of Sphk2 causes a delay in epiboly and depleted sphingosine levels . We show that this phenotype can be recapitulated in sphk2 mutant embryos by up-regulation of ceramide synthase 2 ( Cers2b ) . Cers2b expression is strikingly up-regulated in sphk2 mutant embryos and is dependent on the maternal loss of Sphk2 function . We also show that Cers2b can regulate its own promoter activity in a sphingosine-dependent manner . This mechanism allows the genome to detect and respond to sphingosine levels , and to modulate sphingolipid metabolism .
Trophallaxis is a form of resource sharing where individuals exchange nutrients and other substances through direct mouth-to-mouth contact . Analyzing the proteins in trophallaxis allows for understanding the role of social insect societies as models to understand the evolution and consequences of metabolic division of labor at other scales . Here , we show that trophallactic fluid proteomes are filled with biomarkers reflecting biotic and abiotic conditions at both the colony and individual scale . We find that trophallactic fluid proteins are predominantly involved in the biological processes of carbohydrate metabolism , lipid and sterol transport . We also find significant differences in protein abundance between nurses and foragers and between colonies collected from the field and the laboratory . Our results highlight the importance of trophallaxis in social insect societies .
Fetal alcohol exposure (FAE) is a significant risk factor for human birth defects , including holoprosencephaly ( HPE ) . Cdon is a co-receptor of the Hedgehog ( Hh ) signaling pathway . Mutations in Cdon are associated with HPE in humans , but the mechanisms of FAE-induced HPE are poorly understood . We show that Cdon mutation synergizes with fetal alcohol exposure in mice to produce HPE phenotypes with high penetrance . FAE synergizes with Cdon mutation to inhibit Activin/Nodal pathway signaling in the anterior primitive streak ( APS ) . Cdon and the Nodal receptor component LRP2 bind to TDGF1 , an essential component of the Nodal receptor . Our findings illuminate mechanisms of gene-environment interaction in a multifactorial model of a common birth defect .
The hallmark of alcohol use disorder is the inability to control drinking . The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis ( BNST ) is a key component of the brain’s threat circuitry , and is involved in the regulation of stress responses . Here , we show that dysregulation of cortical inputs to BNST kappa opioid receptor ( KOR ) neurons underlies lasting behavioral changes to stressors that emerge after chronic drinking . KOR blockade normalizes drinking-induced alterations in behavioral responses to the predator odor TMT during protracted abstinence . Further , the mPFC-BNST pathway plays a critical role in mediating aberrant stress responses following heavy drinking . These results provide a molecular substrate for the hallmark of alcohol use disorder and suggest that altered corticolimbic connectivity may underlie negative outcomes in alcohol use disorder .
The evolution of the bone marrow and the origin of blood cells in bones are poorly understood . We investigate the evolution of long bones in extinct tetrapods and their role in the origin of blood cells . Long bones from several stem and crown tetrapods were investigated using classical sectioning and three-dimensional synchrotron virtual histology . Long bones of stem tetrapods exhibit a fan-like arrangement of longitudinal trabeculae in the metaphysis . These bones also contain a dense network of bony tubular marrow processes . Long bones of stem tetrapods therefore exhibit a bone-marrow function similar to that of extant tetrapods . Our study provides evidence for the evolution of blood cell production in bones .
The brain’s primary somatosensory cortex ( S1 ) retains a representation of the missing hand even after amputation . Here , we investigate the persistence of digit topography in S1 in two individuals who lost their left hand several decades ago . Both amputees showed characteristic digit maps , with digit preference and inter-digit overlap patterns similar to those observed in controls . The observed digit maps were weaker and noisier than those found in controls , but the functional digit layout of S1 prevailed following arm amputation . These findings demonstrate that the original functional layout of S1 prevails following input loss .
The human pancreatic KATP channel is a key regulator of insulin secretion and glucose homeostasis . Here , we report the structure of the human KATP channel using cryo-electron microscopy . We identify two forms of the human KATP channel: the quatrefoil and propeller forms . In the quatrefoil form , the KATP channel is a symmetrical tetramer , with the SUR1 transporter module extending out of the membrane plane . In the propeller form , the SUR1 transporter module is rotated 90 degrees , resulting in the lasso extension , which is critical for ADP binding to SUR1 . The lasso extension is a structural interconnectedness of the ATP-binding site , PIP2-binding site , and SUR1-binding site that seems relevant to their functional dependence .
The yeast S . cerevisiae has evolved to metabolize a wide range of carbon sources , including lactic acid . Here , we show that lactic acid can induce a genetic element in yeast that confers the ability to metabolize lactic acid and other non-fermentative carbon sources . The molecular mechanism for this induction is not known . We show that lactic acid can induce the [GAR+] prion in S . cerevisiae and other fungal species , including evolutionarily distant yeast species . This suggests that the ability to induce [GAR+] may be a widespread molecular feature of cross-kingdom communication .
The limb bud is a complex tissue that gives rise to the entire limb . The Shh gene is a critical component of limb development . A highly conserved ~780 bp enhancer , the ZRS , regulates Shh expression in the limb bud . The ZRS is required for proper limb development and mutations in the ZRS cause limb defects . The purpose of studying the ZRS in limb development is to understand how it regulates the spatial activity of Shh . We show that the ZRS is primed but inactive in the limb bud . FGF signalling induces the ZRS and restricts its activity . GABPα , an activator of the ZRS , interacts with ETV4 , a repressor of the ZRS . ETV4 interacts with HDAC2 , which is a negative regulator of the ZRS . Together these events provide the dynamic enhancer activity required for the proper development of the limb bud .
The purpose of this study is to investigate how natural variants in Caenorhabditis elegans affect the penetrance of embryonic lethality . The experiments showed that the penetrance of embryonic lethality was highly variable among the different alleles . The study demonstrates the existence of myriad genetic modifiers and suggests that complex traits are highly polygenic .
The primary determinant of the adaptive immune response is antigen recognition through the T cell receptor (TCR). We show that preexisting memory CD4 T cells can predict vaccine-induced immunity to HB vaccine in humans . A vaccine-specific TCRβ sequence pattern was identified and used to predict vaccine-induced memory CD4 T cell response .
The magnitude of an immunodominant response is influenced by the diversity of T cells . However , the relationship between T cell diversity and the specificity of TCRs remains unknown . We show that a single positively selecting self-peptide , gp250 , greatly expands the MCC-specific CD4+ T cell population in gp250 SC mice . Positive selection by gp250 skewed the post-selection TCR usages toward MCC-preferred dominant and subdominant TCR pairs . The TCRs exhibited highly organized immunodominance hierarchy , with conserved MCC-preferred CDR3 features . Our study demonstrates that a single positively selecting self-peptide can influence naive T cell precursor frequency and the specificity of the selected TCRs .
The main purpose of this study is to understand how the responses of neurons in somatosensory cortex are shaped by the peripheral input. We recorded neural activity from awake, behaving monkeys while they explored a tactile environment with their fingers . We then developed a computational model that reproduces natural spiking responses in the nerve with millisecond precision . We found that most somatosensory neurons in areas 3b and 1 receive input from both rapidly adapting ( RA ) and Pacinian ( PC ) afferents . Importantly , signals from the different classes drive cortical responses in very different ways: RA afferent input exerts an excitatory influence on S1 responses , while PC input sharpened the timing of cortical responses without having a major impact on the rates . Finally , we show that the process of integration maximizes information transmission across the range of stimulation conditions that might be encountered during everyday interactions with objects .
Dengue outbreaks are infrequent but potentially severe , with high disease burden in island settings . We conducted a serological survey of a population-representative sample of 106 individuals in Fiji , before and after the 2013/14 dengue outbreak , and examined the relationship between reported cases and seroprevalence . We found evidence of serological evidence of prior dengue infection in 74% of participants , and an age-specific pattern of infection where the 10–19 year-old age group had the highest risk of infection . We also found little evidence of demographic or environmental risk factors associated with seroconversion . Using a Bayesian approach , we fitted a transmission dynamic model to both the serological survey and surveillance data , and found that an additional reduction in transmission coincided with a nationwide vector clean-up campaign in March 2014 . Our results suggest that factors other than herd immunity and seasonally varying transmission could have played a role in the observed dynamics of the 2013/14 dengue outbreak in Fiji .
In cognitive neuroscience , models are used to explain the relationship between brain and behavior . However , the likelihood function for most models is not known , making posterior inference challenging . Here , we propose methods to approximate the likelihood function for generative models using neural networks , enabling fast and efficient posterior inference for arbitrary inference scenarios . We show that our methods can accurately recover posterior parameters for a variety of neurocognitive process models without requiring closed-form likelihoods .
The pulmonary endothelium is the interface between the lung airspace and bloodstream . The lung is exposed to a variety of acute and chronic insults , which result in injury to the endothelium . The mechanisms by which the endothelium contributes to lung regeneration are not well understood . Here , we use single-cell transcriptomics and flow cytometry to identify and characterize novel endothelial cell populations in the mouse lung . We identify a novel population of Car4-high endothelial cells that possess a unique transcriptome . Car4-high ECs are enriched in the regenerating zones surrounding the most damaged regions of the lung following influenza- or bleomycin-induced lung injury . Car4-high ECs are closely related to mesenchymal endothelial cells and are likely to be derived from the same progenitor cells . We also identify a proliferative EC population that arises after influenza injury and contributes to endothelial regeneration .
Sexual encounters between hermaphrodites and males are detrimental to health . Here , we show that young hermaphrodites are surprisingly resistant to the negative effect of sexual encounters with males . Surprisingly , this protection is not due to youthfulness , but to the presence of self-sperm . The presence of self-sperm protects the soma from the detrimental effect of mating by activating a sperm-sensing pathway . This pathway is conserved in other hermaphroditic nematodes and may represent a key adaptation for their reproductive success .
Understanding the contribution of a particular cortical area to mental phenomena such as perception necessitates access to neural activity over multiple spatial scales and over broad regions of cortical surface . To address this challenge , we developed a computational model that can map the spatial patterns of neural activity measured using widefield imaging to the local spiking activity of neurons . We then validated the model using a variety of experimental approaches . The model compared well to the measured widefield signals , providing evidence that the widefield GCaMP signals reflect the linearly summed local spiking activity , while widefield VSD signals reflect the linearly summed local membrane potential . Our study demonstrates the potential of the technique to provide a new way to study neural activity in behaving macaques .
Membrane proteins are generally insoluble in aqueous solution . Detergent micelles are the most effective way to extract and purify membrane proteins , yet these surfactants have many undesired effects on protein stability and downstream biochemical analysis . To circumvent these difficulties , membrane proteins are often reconstituted with amphipathic scaffolds . However , current methods of reconstitution are difficult because each scaffold system has specific properties and limitations , and each requires substantial optimization . We show that the peptidisc method can capture membrane proteins into water-soluble particles . The peptidisc method is therefore considered a universal tool for membrane protein reconstitution .
The RecA filament is a multi-protein complex that facilitates homologous recombination . The filament is bound to the DNA and moves along the DNA strand to search for homologous sequences . The mechanisms that facilitate homology search are not well understood . Here , we report that the RecA filament can slide along the DNA strand . The RecA filament moves along the DNA strand at a rate of approximately 200 fold faster than the rate of base pairing . We propose that the RecA filament can slide along the DNA strand to facilitate homology search . Our results suggest that the RecA filament can sample several hundred base pairs during sliding .
The face patch system is a network of brain areas in the superior temporal sulcus ( STS ) that are specialized for processing facial information . The face patch system has been shown to be involved in face perception , but its relationship to gaze following , which is a critical component of social cognition , is unknown . In the present study , we asked two rhesus monkeys to use head gaze orientation to identify the spatial target a conspecific was looking at . We found that head gaze following was associated with a distinct patch of BOLD activity in the posterior STS . The face patch system was not involved in gaze following .
The majority of research on the biology of food intake control has focused on basic metabolic and homeostatic neurobiological substrates . Here , we identify novel neurobiological circuitry regulating appetite . Pharmacological activation of ventral hippocampal ( vHP ) ghrelin receptors increases meal frequency and meal size , and this effect is mediated by downstream activation of lateral hypothalamic ( LHA ) orexin-1 receptors . Activation of vHP ghrelin neurons activates GHSR-expressing neurons in the dorsal perifornical LHA , and this activation is required for vHP ghrelin-mediated hyperphagia . These findings identify a novel neural substrate for the control of learned aspects of feeding behavior .
The subterranean habitat is characterized by a dim-light environment and extreme physiological demands . The evolutionary history of subterranean mammals has been marked by phenotypic convergence , but the underlying genetic mechanisms have not been fully understood . We employed a computational approach based on evolutionary rates to identify genes that have evolved at a faster rate in subterranean mammals than in other mammals . We found that the eye is one of the most highly convergent phenotypes in subterranean mammals , and that genes involved in eye development and visual perception are highly enriched among genes showing convergent acceleration . We also identified eye-specific enhancers that are under relaxed constraint and are associated with eye-related diseases . Our results demonstrate the recurrent and predictable nature of evolution in subterranean environments and suggest that the eye is a key organ that has undergone relaxation of constraint in these environments .
P2B is a calcium-dependent phosphatase that regulates the duration and intensity of signaling pathways . Here we show that AKAP79 anchors PP2B and modulates local second messenger responses . AKAP79-PP2B complexes exist in a range of extended conformations that are reorganized upon Ca2+/calmodulin activation . AKAP79 contains short linear interaction motifs that modulate PP2B activity . We propose that the AKAP79-PP2B complex functions as a molecular scaffold that regulates local signaling pathways by anchoring and phosphorylating protein substrates .
Sensory deprivation is thought to limit plasticity in the adult human brain . Here , we investigate the role of experience-driven plasticity in the human brain by studying the cortical representation of the missing limb in individuals with unilateral hand absence . Using fMRI and DTI , we show that cortical representation in the deprived cortex is shaped by the amount of residual arm usage in individuals with congenital or acquired limb-absence . We demonstrate that functional cortical reorganisation underlies any observed variation in motor behaviour , and that adaptive motor strategies serve as powerful drivers of both functional and structural plasticity in adults .
The mitotic spindle is responsible for positioning the plane of cell cleavage and determining the location, size, and content of daughter cells. The regulation of the position of the mitotic spindle is largely unknown . We describe an optogenetic approach to systematically investigate the contribution of individual components of the Gα-GDP-GPR-1/2Pins/LGN complex and the LIN-5Mud/NuMA protein in spindle positioning in the one-cell C . elegans embryo . Our data show that Gα is not essential for cortical pulling force generation , but that Gα-GDP functions as a membrane anchor . In contrast , the Gα-GDP-GPR-1/2Pins/LGN complex is required for spindle positioning , and LIN-5 is the obligate dynein activator that generates cortical pulling forces . We further show that cortical recruitment of LIN-5 can be used to manipulate spindle positioning and the outcome of cell division in the early embryo .
The role of visual stimulation during locomotion in enhancing recovery from sensory deprivation in the mouse is investigated . Monocularly deprived mice viewed a visual stimulus while running on a spherical treadmill . Excitatory neurons responded by regaining normal levels of response , and narrow-spiking neurons responded to the visual stimuli viewed by the animal during locomotion . The visual stimulation enhanced the response of excitatory neurons and recovered normal levels of response in narrow-spiking neurons . The primary purpose of the study is to investigate the role of visual stimulation during locomotion in enhancing recovery from sensory deprivation in the mouse .
The unique feature of the symbiotic relationship between leaf-cutting ants and fungi is the combination of oxidative and enzymatic biomass degradation . We present a comprehensive proteome of fecal fluid from the leaf-cutting ant Acromyrmex echinatior . The proteome consists of 174 proteins , with 85% of them being fungal in origin . The majority of the fungal proteins were produced by the fungal cultivar and ingested by the ants . The ants use a range of enzymes to degrade plant biomass , including oxidoreductases , proteases , carbohydrate active enzymes , and lipases . The proteins in the fecal fluid also include hydrogen peroxide oxidoreductases , iron oxidoreductases , and laccases , which are all present at high levels . We hypothesize that the ants use fecal fluid to produce hydroxyl radicals by reducing iron atoms in the fecal fluid . This hypothesis was confirmed using biochemical assays . Our findings highlight the unique and efficient symbiotic relationship between leaf-cutting ants and fungal cultivars .
The potential of COX-2 inhibitors as a novel treatment approach for stress-related psychiatric disorders is investigated in mice . Systemic administration of two COX-2 inhibitors , LM-4131 and Lumiracoxib , and the COX-2 selective inhibitor , celecoxib , attenuated stress-induced anxiety-like behavior . The anxiolytic effects of LM-4131 were paralleled by reduced anxiety-related BLA neuronal activity ex vivo and in vivo . Activation of the SK channel was associated with reduced anxiety-like behavior in mice , and this effect was blocked by SK channel inhibition . Direct activation of SK channels was sufficient to mimic the anxiolytic-like effects of LM-4131 . Reductions in food consumption produced by testing in a novel cage were partially reversed by LM-4131 in mice with prior foot-shock stress exposure . The ability of LM-4131 to normalize stress-induced deficits in food consumption was completely blocked by either 2 or 5 mg/kg Rimonabant . These data suggest that COX-2 inhibition reduces stress-induced anxiety-like behavior via a novel mechanism .
Modeling the dynamics of protein molecules is a major challenge in structural biology . Here , we present an ensemble-refinement method that improves the accuracy of protein structure modeling . The method uses an underlying global disorder model to capture large-scale motions . We demonstrate that the ensemble-refinement method improves the accuracy of protein structure modeling and provides a more comprehensive understanding of structure-dynamics-function relationships .
