The cerebellum is involved in the learning and execution of complex movements , but it is not clear how the cerebellum can learn a sequence of inter-connected movements . Here we show that the cerebellum can learn a sequence of inter-connected movements by using feedback signals from one movement to serve as a cue for the next movement in the sequence . We demonstrate this by using eyelid conditioning training in rabbits . We find that a feedback signal from the first eyelid movement can be used as a cue to learn a second eyelid movement . Moreover , the timing of the second movement is influenced by the timing of the first movement and the relationship between the activity of the Purkinje cells in the cerebellar cortex and the timing of both eyelid movements is similar to that of the single-component eyelid responses . Our findings provide a general framework for how the cerebellum can learn a sequence of inter-connected movements .
The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) kinase controls cellular metabolism and growth . Two distinct multiprotein complexes , mTORC1 and mTORC2 , are the structural components of mTOR . The mTORC1 complex has a well-defined structure , whereas the structure of mTORC2 has remained unavailable . Here , we report the structure of the mTORC2 complex at a resolution of 7 . 4 Å , revealing a dimeric architecture with a conserved binding site for accessory proteins on the mTORC2 complex . The mTORC2 complex is insensitive to rapamycin , which binds to the mTORC1 complex , and a unique structural feature is responsible for this rapamycin insensitivity . Our findings highlight the importance of mTORC2 in cellular metabolism and growth .
The relationship between number and space perception is a long-standing question in cognitive neuroscience. The main hypothesis is that numerosity and space perception share common neural resources. We show that visual motion direction can be adapted to number perception in the human parietal cortex , thus suggesting that number processing co-ops with space processing .
The RNA-binding protein Musashi-1 ( MSI1 ) is essential for neural stem cell differentiation . MSI1 regulates gene expression in response to changes in the cell's metabolic state . Here , we show that MSI1 is inhibited by the fatty acid oleic acid . The inhibition is specific to ω-9 monounsaturated fatty acids and is mediated by the RNA recognition motif ( RRM ) of MSI1 . The RRM is a binding site for the fatty acid . The fatty acid disrupts the RNA recognition motif , allosterically modulating the protein's RNA-binding activity . We identify stearoyl-CoA desaturase-1 ( SCD ) as a regulatory target of MSI1 , and show that SCD expression is increased in the presence of MSI1 . Our findings reveal a novel mechanism for MSI1 regulation by fatty acids , and suggest that MSI1 may play a role in the regulation of cellular metabolism and proliferation .
Synaptotagmin 7 ( syt7 ) is a Ca2+-binding protein that regulates synaptic vesicle replenishment . Here , we report that mutations in syt7 cause defects in synaptic vesicle replenishment in cultured hippocampal neurons from mice . The effects of syt7 mutations are rescued by the Ca2+-binding protein CaM , which binds to syt7 in a Ca2+-dependent manner . We propose that the Ca2+-sensor for synaptic vesicle replenishment consists of a complex formed between these two conserved Ca2+-binding proteins .
Mood and anxiety disorders are the most common psychiatric conditions and exacerbated by stress . Cyclooxygenase-2 ( COX-2 ) is a potential therapeutic target for mood and anxiety disorders , but the mechanisms by which COX-2 inhibition affects these disorders are unknown . Here , we show that COX-2 inhibition attenuates stress-induced anxiety-like behavior in mice , and that this effect is mediated by the small conductance calcium-activated potassium channel ( SK ) . LM-4131 , a novel COX-2 inhibitor that selectively activates SK channels , and Lumiracoxib , a traditional COX-2 inhibitor , reduce stress-induced anxiety-like behavior in the novel-food and elevated-plus maze assays . The effects of LM-4131 are mediated by the CB1 cannabinoid receptor , but not the CB2 receptor . In addition , LM-4131 reduces stress-induced amygdala neuron activity ex vivo and in vivo . Our results suggest that COX-2 inhibition has potential therapeutic utility in stress-related psychiatric disorders .
Membrane proteins are often difficult to work with due to their insolubility in aqueous solution . Here we present the peptidisc method , which captures membrane proteins into water-soluble particles . The peptidisc method employs a short amphipathic bi-helical peptide to capture membrane proteins from a lipid bilayer . We show that the peptidisc is a simple and efficient way to replace detergent for the reconstitution of membrane proteins . The peptidisc is therefore an important alternative to nanodiscs , nanostructured peptides and other membrane protein solubilization methods .
Transcript errors in prokaryotes have been considered to be a minor issue . However , recent studies have shown that transcript errors can result in severe fitness consequences and can contribute to the development of diseases . In this study , we used a highly sensitive method , called CirSeq , to identify transcript errors in four species of prokaryotes . We found that transcript errors are orders of magnitude higher than genetic mutations and that the distribution of transcript errors is not random across genes . We also observed a transition bias in transcript errors , which suggests that RNA polymerases may not be able to distinguish rNTPs within the same structural class of nitrogenous bases . Moreover , we observed an increased frequency of nonsense errors at the 3′ end of mRNAs , which suggests that the degradation of RNAs carrying nonsense errors may depend on the degree of ribosome coverage on RNA molecules .
The human brain reorganises following sensory deprivation , but it is unclear whether this reorganisation is driven by experience or age . Here , we show that adaptive patterns of limb usage in individuals with upper limb absence drive cortical plasticity . Using functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI ) and diffusion tensor imaging ( DTI ) , we demonstrate that the deprived cortex of 1-handed individuals is employed by whichever limb is over-used , irrespective of age at deprivation . These findings demonstrate that experience-driven plasticity can transcend boundaries .
The evolution of the bone marrow is a major question in the history of tetrapods . In amniotes , it produces haematopoietic stem cells and red blood cells . In the fossil record , it is not known whether the evolution of the bone marrow and long-bone growth occurred before or after the water-to-land transition . We investigate the evolution of long bones in stem amphibians and stem amniotes ( including the earliest amniote Eusthenopteron ) and reveal that long-bone elongation and bone-marrow function evolved independently . Long-bone elongation occurred in stem amphibians and stem amniotes before the transition to land , and bone-marrow function evolved independently in the first amniotes .
Alcohol-dependent individuals exhibit increased stress sensitivity , but the mechanisms underlying this phenomenon are not well understood . We show that increased cortical inputs to the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis ( BNST ) underlie lasting behavioral changes to stressors after chronic alcohol drinking . The BNST is a brain site for neuropeptide and kappa opioid receptor ( KOR ) signaling . We demonstrate that KOR signaling in the BNST is a critical molecular substrate and a potential therapeutic target for negative responses to stress in heavy alcohol drinkers . We show that KOR blockade improves stress-related behaviors in EtOH-drinking mice , suggesting that increased corticolimbic drive may promote abnormal stress behavioral responses to predator odor during protracted withdrawal . These findings provide insight into the mechanisms underlying alcohol use disorder and suggest that KOR signaling in the BNST may be a potential therapeutic target for alcohol use disorder.
Answer: eEF1A is essential for protein synthesis.
The hormone auxin is essential for plant growth and development . Auxin regulates many cellular processes and promotes stem cell maintenance . Auxin is also required for flower primordium initiation , which is critical for plant reproduction . The auxin-regulated transcription factor MONOPTEROS ( MP ) is required for flower primordium formation . Here , we show that MP recruits chromatin remodeling ATPases to its target loci to unlock compacted chromatin and execute a chromatin state switch that underlies flower primordium initiation . The chromatin remodeling ATPases are essential for flower initiation and recruit MP to target loci in the absence of the hormonal cue . Auxin-sensitive Aux/IAA proteins block chromatin remodeling ATPases from recruiting to target loci . Our study uncovers a simple and versatile mechanism for auxin-mediated chromatin state switches that supports diverse transcriptional and cell fate identity outcomes .
Chromosome 7q22 is a frequently deleted interval in myelodysplastic syndrome ( MDS ) and acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) . To investigate the role of 7q22 deletions in MDS pathogenesis , we generated mice with a heterozygous deletion of a 2-Mb interval of chromosome band 5A3 that is syntenic to a 7q22 segment . This deletion perturbs hematopoietic stem cell ( HSC ) and myeloid progenitor populations , and leads to a myeloid lineage output bias , impaired lymphoid repopulating potential , and a pronounced age-associated expansion of HSC and myeloid progenitors . The 7q22 deletion also leads to decreased expression of multiple genes encoding oxidative phosphorylation genes and to increased reactive oxygen species levels in HSC and myeloid progenitors . These functional abnormalities support a mechanistic role of 7q22 deletions in MDS pathogenesis .
Somatosensory neurons are responsible for detecting and responding to mechanical , thermal , and nociceptive stimuli . The somatosensory nervous system comprises diverse neuronal subsets with distinct conduction properties and peripheral and central innervation patterns . Analyzing the molecular profiles of somatosensory neurons is essential for understanding their diversity and functional organization . Here we used cell-type specific transcriptional profiling to identify three populations of somatosensory neurons in the dorsal root ganglia ( DRG ) . We found that three populations of DRG neurons were identified by surface Isolectin B4 labeling , transcriptional profiling , and Cre-driver line reporter expression . These populations included IB4+SNS-Cre/TdTomato+ , IB4−SNS-Cre/TdTomato+ , and Parv-Cre/TdTomato+ neurons . FACS purification of these populations revealed distinct transcriptomes , enrichment of specific ion channels , ligand-gated ion channels , and transcription factors . Hierarchical clustering of transcriptomes revealed three major somatosensory neuronal subgroups . Single cell transcript analysis revealed distinct expression patterns of ion channels , ligand-gated ion channels , and transcription factors . This study provides a comprehensive view of the molecular profiles of somatosensory neurons , illustrating their complexity and diversity .
The ZHP-3, -4 RING finger proteins are required for crossover patterning in C . elegans . Here we describe the functions of ZHP-1/2 , which are homologous to ZHP-3/4 . ZHP-1/2 localize to the synaptonemal complex ( SC ) and the crossover-containing ( CO ) chromosomes . Depletion of ZHP-1/2 leads to the accumulation of ZHP-3/4 at recombination intermediates and their asymmetric localization along the chromosome arms . Depletion of ZHP-1/2 also impairs crossover maturation and chromosome remodeling , suggesting that this pair of RING finger proteins acts upstream of the SC and CO to regulate these processes . Together with previous studies , our findings indicate that the ZHP family of RING finger proteins regulate crossover formation in a hierarchical manner , and may also play similar roles in sister chromatid cohesion during meiosis .
Mitotic exit is a complex process involving the coordinated regulation of many proteins . It is thought that regulated dephosphorylation is more important than proteolysis in dictating the order and timing of events . We use high-resolution mass spectrometry to compare the relative importance of proteolysis and dephosphorylation in dictating the order and timing of events during mitotic exit in HeLa cells . We find that a graded series of dephosphorylations occurs following CDK1 inhibition , whose rate is encoded into the system at the level of individual phospho-sites . This is consistent with the idea that dephosphorylation , rather than proteolysis , determines the order of events during anaphase . Furthermore , dephosphorylation is not altered by inhibition of APC/C activity or protein synthesis . These findings support the view that the APC/C co-ordinates the order and timing of events during mitotic exit through phosphatase activity , rather than proteolysis .
The prefrontal cortex is a key structure for behavioral resilience and for the regulation of depressive behaviors in response to stress . The mPFC is a key structure for the regulation of depressive behaviors in response to stress , but the specific cell types that contribute to this process are not known . We have identified a novel population of Wfs1-expressing pyramidal cells in the mPFC that are involved in the modulation of depressive behaviors in response to stress . Deletion of Wfs1 from these cells renders animals vulnerable to stress-induced depression and hyperactivates the hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal axis . These findings suggest that dysfunction in Wfs1-expressing cells in the mPFC may contribute to the clinical relationship between stress and depression .
Protein function is essential for life as we know it . It is largely encoded in a protein’s amino-acid chain that dictates not only the specific 3D structure , but also the conformational flexibility and dynamics of a protein in a given environment . Precise regulation of protein function is vital for every living cell to cope with an ever-changing environment , and occurs on many levels pre- and post-translationally . Here , we show that protein function can be fine-tuned by local protein regulation . We present three orthogonal ways to modulate yeast Hsp90’s conformational state space , and demonstrate that these modulations have far-reaching thermodynamic , kinetic , and functional consequences .
Polarity proteins establish cell polarity by regulating the distribution and localization of other proteins . In yeast , polarity is established by a cooperative process involving positive feedback . We report experiments that reveal a mechanism of competition between polarity clusters . In cells with high levels of polarity factors , clusters compete for shared components , leading to prolonged coexistence of clusters . We show that slowing the exchange of polarity factors between clusters and the cell interior allows clusters to persist longer , leading to the formation of more than one bud . These findings suggest that competition is the mechanism that ensures that only one front is formed during polarity establishment .
The RecA filament is a multi-protein complex that mediates homologous recombination . The RecA filament slides along the DNA during homology search , which is the first step in synapsis . Using single-molecule fluorescence imaging techniques , we demonstrate that RecA filament sliding can significantly accelerate homology search by approximately 200 fold . Our results show that the RecA filament slides along the DNA by approximately 770 bp2/s , which is approximately 800 bp2/s faster than the diffusion of RecA monomers along the DNA . We demonstrate that homology recognition can occur during sliding . Our results suggest that RecA filament sliding is a mechanism to assist homology search during strand exchange reaction and may also serve as a model for other proteins that bind to DNA .
M2-1 is a basic protein of the human metapneumovirus that is required for infectivity in vivo . M2-1 functions as a transcriptional regulator and inhibits transcription termination at gene ends in the RSV . The mechanism of action of M2-1 is unknown , and its structure is not known . Here we report the X-ray crystal structure of HMPV M2-1 . We show that M2-1 is an intrinsically disordered , modular protein that can adopt both open and closed conformations . M2-1 recognizes RNA by the zinc finger domain , which binds adenine bases through stacking and hydrogen bonding . The core domain binds poly-adenosine RNA sequences through a specific interaction with the backbone of the core domain . Our findings provide a structural basis for the recognition of gene end RNA sequences by M2-1 and the inhibition of transcription termination .
Lysosomes are the main site for cellular degradation and recycling . Chloride ions are essential for this process and are present in high concentrations within lysosomes . Here , we show that depletion of chloride ions in lysosomes in Caenorhabditis elegans compromises lysosomal degradation . This is accompanied by a decrease in lysosomal pH , but not by a decrease in lysosomal proton concentrations . We also show that depletion of chloride ions in mammalian cell culture models of lysosomal storage disorders results in decreased lysosomal chloride concentrations . Our findings suggest a broader role for chloride in lysosome function and highlight the importance of studying lysosomal diseases .
Monkeys and humans are able to locate targets by following the direction of a conspecific's head or eye gaze . This ability relies on the orientation of the conspecific's head or face , which is taken as a cue for the direction of the conspecific's attention . We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate the neural basis of head gaze following in monkeys . We found that the direction of the conspecific's head or face orientation is associated with a specific patch of activity in the superior temporal sulcus . This patch was found to be separate from the face patch system , which is responsible for face perception . Our results suggest that the neural basis of gaze following in monkeys is largely determined by the head or face orientation .
Amblyopia , or reduced vision in one eye , is a common condition in humans and other mammals . The primary visual cortex is responsible for processing visual information and guiding visual perception . Recovery from amblyopia in humans is slow and incomplete , even after opening the deprived eye . Here , we show that locomotion enhances recovery of visual responses in the primary visual cortex of mice . Intrinsic signal imaging and single unit recordings in the primary visual cortex of mice revealed that locomotion enhances recovery of visual responses in a stimulus-specific manner . The recovery was not promoted by locomotion alone , nor by visual stimulation alone . These findings suggest that the recovery is facilitated only in the neural circuits that are activated during running .
The leaf-cutting ants Acromyrmex far their fungal cultivars as a symbiotic food source . The ants deposit their fecal fluid on top of the fungus garden , where it degrades plant biomass . The fecal fluid contains enzymes that degrade plant cell walls and is rich in oxidoreductases , which are not found in the ants but are produced in the fungal cultivar . The fungal cultivar has lost its ligninolytic peroxidases , which would otherwise be expected to be involved in Fenton chemistry . We show that the ants have evolved a fecal fluid enzyme that reduces iron to ferric iron , which is required for Fenton chemistry to occur . This enzyme is encoded by the ant genome and is the only oxidoreductase that does not originate from the fungus . We also show that the fecal fluid contains a high concentration of hydrogen peroxide , which is produced by aryl alcohol oxidases and copper radical oxidases . These enzymes are not found in the ants but are produced by the fungal cultivar . We show that the Fenton chemistry of the fecal fluid is important for degrading plant cell walls and for the ant-fungus symbiosis .
GWL ( Greatwall kinase ) is a mitotic kinase that promotes the hyperactivation of AKT ( Protein Kinase B ) . We show that GWL overexpression promotes cell transformation and tumour growth in vitro and in vivo . GWL overexpression induces the hyperphosphorylation of AKT on its activating site S473 . GWL overexpression does not induce AKT phosphorylation on S473 through direct phosphorylation or increased activity of the AKT phosphatase PHLPP , but through inhibition of this phosphatase by ubiquitination and proteasome-dependent degradation . GWL overexpression is a common feature of human transformed cell lines and tumours , indicating that GWL is a potential therapeutic target for cancer treatment .
Macrophages are the primary target of Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( MTB ) and are involved in innate immunity and tissue homeostasis . BDQ is a diarylquinoline that specifically inhibits the ATP synthase of MTB , but its effects on the host immune response are not known . Here , we show that BDQ reprograms human macrophages into potent bactericidal phagocytes . BDQ induces a substantial metabolic reprogramming of macrophages , and increases the number of acidic compartments and proteolytic activity . BDQ-treated macrophages are able to control MTB infection and enhance the activity of other anti-TB drugs . Furthermore , BDQ confers innate resistance to bacterial infection through the activation of autophagy . Our results suggest that BDQ could be used as a host-directed therapy against a wide range of bacterial infections .
The lung is a complex organ that requires coordinated branching morphogenesis . Hippo signaling is a key pathway that controls organ size and tissue growth . YAP is a transcriptional coactivator that regulates local epithelial cell properties . Here , we show that YAP is a key regulator of lung development . YAP is required for proper lung branching and cyst formation . Loss of YAP leads to a reduction in cell number and compromised mechanical force production in the lung . YAP regulates multiple genes that control cell proliferation and cellular contractility . Our findings reveal a new conceptual framework for understanding how changes in local epithelial properties mediated by YAP drive lung branching morphogenesis .
Bacterial type III secretion apparatus injectisomes are nanomachines that allow pathogenic bacteria to inject effector proteins into eukaryotic host cells . Here , we present the first structures of Yersinia enterocolitica and Shigella flexneri injectisomes in intact bacterial cells . The injectisomes are elongated by ∼50% in the native environment , while their basal body length varies by 20% . The elasticity of the injectisome basal body is crucial for its ability to inject proteins into host cells . We reconstructed a 4 nm resolution structure of the YscDJ ring at the bacterial inner membrane by combining cryo-electron tomography , X-ray crystallography , and molecular modeling and simulations . The elongation of the YscDJ ring was found to be ∼3 . 5 nm , which is comparable to the elasticity of the flagellar motor system . This elasticity of the injectisome basal body is a novel feature of bacterial nanomachines and might be a general mechanism for structural protection against membrane stresses .
FER regulates growth and reproduction through its interactions with ROPGEFs . LLG1 and LRE are GPI-anchored proteins that interact with FER and are required for its cell surface signaling capacity . Here we show that LLG1 and LRE physically interact with FER and that they are essential for FER localization to the cell membrane . LLG1 and LRE also interact with FER in the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) and are required for its proper delivery to the cell membrane . These results elucidate a novel mechanism by which GPI-APs regulate the activity of cell surface receptors and provide insight into how GPI-APs might control cell signaling .
Chromatin is a complex of DNA and histones that plays a fundamental role in gene expression . While the fundamental unit of chromatin is the nucleosome , its evolution has not been well characterized . Here we constructed a genome-wide nucleosome occupancy map for the halophilic archaeon Haloferax volcanii and show that the architecture of chromatin and the occupancy of its nucleosomes along transcription units are conserved across eukaryotes and archaea . The hallmarks of eukaryotic chromatin observed in Haloferax volcanii are nucleosome-depleted regions at transcriptional start sites and conserved −1 and +1 promoter nucleososomes . Our findings suggest that the evolution of chromatin regulation may be much older than previously thought and that chromatin is necessary but not sufficient for genome compaction .
The availability of specific nutrients influences aging in many species . Protein restriction is one of the most well-known mechanisms for extending lifespan , and it is mediated by serotonin signaling in the brain . We used Drosophila melanogaster to investigate the role of serotonin signaling in protein-dependent aging . Serotonin signaling is required for protein preference and is necessary for the lifespan extension observed in serotonin-deficient flies . We identify a novel amino acid transporter , JhI-21 , that modulates serotonin signaling and is required for protein preference in starved flies . We further show that serotonin signaling is sufficient to induce lifespan extension when flies are exposed to a complex nutrient environment . Our results suggest that the macronutrient valuation process itself is a potent factor that modulates aging independent of feeding or total nutrient intake .
Transcriptional profiling of a cohort of 50 pairs of clear cell renal cell carcinoma ( ccRCC ) tumor and normal matched samples from The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) revealed that transcription read-through is prevalent in ccRCC . Transcription read-through correlates with poorer patient survival , and we identified SETD2 inactivation as a contributing factor for increased transcription read-through . Moreover , we show that transcription read-through overruns and interferes with the expression of downstream genes . We identified the anti-apoptotic oncogene BCL2 as one of such interfered genes , thereby illustrating a new mechanistic basis for the transcriptional deregulation of oncogenes . Finally , our transcriptome analyses revealed recurrent RNA chimeras generated from read-through episodes in ccRCC .
GPIHBP1 is a key component of the intravascular lipolysis process . The GPIHBP1•LPL complex mediates the lipolytic processing of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins along capillaries . Here , we report the structure and function of the GPIHBP1•LPL interaction . We find that GPIHBP1’s intrinsically disordered acidic domain stabilizes LPL’s catalytic activity by inhibiting its inherent instability and subsequent unfolding . The acidic domain of GPIHBP1 also binds to the catalytic domain of LPL , creating a stable anchor for the LPL homodimer . The acidic domain of GPIHBP1 is intrinsically disordered and is the result of an evolutionary trade-off between the need for high stability and the requirement for a functional binding interface . The acidic domain is an important component of the GPIHBP1•LPL interaction and is critical for the lipolytic processing of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins in vivo .
TraR is a key transcription factor that regulates initiation by binding to the RNA polymerase ( RNAP ) . The molecular basis for TraR's effects on RNAP is unknown . Here , we use cryo-electron microscopy to determine the structure of Escherichia coli RNAP and TraR . TraR induces conformational changes in RNAP that alter the interactions of RNAP with promoter DNA . TraR binding induces two distinct conformational changes in RNAP that we propose disfavor RPo formation , accounting for inhibition . Together , these effects allow TraR to modulate multiple features of the energy landscape of RPo formation , which is key to allowing TraR to effect differential regulation across promoter space without directly interacting with DNA .
The biology of food intake control is largely focused on basic metabolic and homeostatic neurobiological substrates . Here we identify and characterize a novel neural substrate by which ghrelin engages conditioned feeding behavior . Pharmacological activation of vHP ghrelin signaling in meal-entrained rats robustly increased 4hr chow intake , whereas vHP ghrelin-mediated hyperphagia was eliminated when vHP to lateral hypothalamic area ( LHA ) communication was disrupted by unilateral NMDA lesions . This novel neural pathway involves vHP ghrelin-expressing neurons providing an input to dorsal perifornical LHA orexin-expressing neurons , and vHP ghrelin signaling engaging downstream orexin receptor 1 ( Ox1R ) signaling . Our findings provide evidence for a novel neurobiological circuitry by which ghrelin regulates feeding behavior .
The 2013/14 dengue outbreak in Fiji was the largest in the Pacific region . In the absence of serological data , we examined the relationship between serological and surveillance data to investigate the factors that influence the transmission of dengue fever in island settings . We found that the highest risk of infection was in the 10-19 year-old age group , and that the 20-29 year-old age group had the highest proportion of reported cases . There was little evidence of spatial heterogeneity in seroconversion , suggesting that infection spread throughout the population . We found that the 2013/14 outbreak declined in February/March 2014 , coinciding with a nationwide vector clean-up campaign . Our model suggested that seasonal variation in transmission and herd immunity alone could not explain the fall in transmission . We estimated the basic reproduction number was 1 . 12 (95% CI: 1 . 02–1 . 25 ) , with a peak value of 1 . 87 (1 . 70–2 . 07 ) in January 2014 . Combining serological and surveillance data in a transmission dynamic model allowed us to quantify the relative role of climate , herd immunity and control measures in shaping transmission .
Trypanothione is the major thiol redox molecule in the parasite . It is synthesized from trypanothione synthetase and glutathione by the mitochondrial tryparedoxin . Here , we provide evidence that the mitochondrion of trypanosomes harbors a trypanothione-based redox metabolism . Tpx-roGFP2 , a novel biosensor , was expressed in the cytosol or mitochondrion of Trypanosoma brucei and revealed that the mitochondrion harbors a trypanothione-based redox metabolism with a slightly lower reducing capacity than the cytosol . Depletion of Tpx abolished the ability of the cytosolic probe to respond to exogenously applied oxidants . In the absence of Tpx , the mitochondrial probe was still able to respond to exogenous H2O2 but was less efficient . The mitochondrial probe also showed a slower re-reduction compared to the cytosolic probes . When Tpx was depleted , all three probes were oxidized and their steady state was shifted towards a more reducing redox potential . This indicated that the mitochondrial thiol redox system is essential for the survival of the parasite .
Paget's disease of bone (PDB) is a disorder characterized by increased bone remodeling and is often associated with genetic mutations in the gene encoding the proteasome subunit SQSTM1 . The clinical and pathological features of PDB are thought to be triggered by environmental factors , and epigenetic factors may play a role in the pathogenesis of the disease . Here , we have performed genome-wide profiling of DNA methylation in 116 PDB patients and 260 controls and found differentially methylated CpG sites and gene-body regions . Our results suggest that epigenetic factors may play a role in the pathogenesis of PDB .
The larval lymph gland of Drosophila melanogaster is a popular model for studying hematopoiesis . Here , we report the presence of Hematopoietic stem cells ( HSCs ) in the first instar larval lymph gland . The Notch expressing HSCs use Dpp/BMP as a niche signal , extending the conservation of HSCs across taxa . The hierarchical relationship between HSCs and dome expressing progenitors is established using genetic lineage-tracing experiments . These HSCs , like vertebrate AGM HSCs , are niche dependent and require Dpp signaling for their maintenance . The study of HSCs in Drosophila provides a new model for studying the hematopoietic niche and hematopoiesis .
Alveoli are critical for gas exchange and lung function . How alveoli are formed remains poorly understood . Here , we reveal a novel mechanism of PCP signaling in the lung that regulates the formation of alveoli . We find that PCP signaling regulates the formation of alveoli by controlling the cytoskeleton of alveolar cells and myofibroblasts . PCP signaling regulates the secretion of PDGF ligand from alveolar cells and is critical for their migration and proliferation . Our findings provide new mechanistic insight into alveologenesis and reveal a novel mode of PCP signaling in tissue patterning .
Protein synthesis is a complex process that requires the coordinated activities of aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases ( aaRSs ) and quality control mechanisms to ensure the fidelity of protein synthesis . The quality control mechanisms of the genetic code , which include editing of tRNAs and proofreading of translation , are essential for maintaining the accuracy of protein synthesis in eukaryotic cells . However , the role of aaRSs in this process is not well understood . Here we investigate the role of the phenylalanine-tRNA synthetase ( PheRS ) in E . coli and demonstrate that it is required for the efficient incorporation of m-Tyr into the proteome , a non-proteinogenic amino acid . We show that PheRS editing is required for the efficient incorporation of m-Tyr into the proteome and that m-Tyr is toxic to the cell . Our results demonstrate the importance of quality control mechanisms in maintaining the fidelity of protein synthesis and suggest that the role of aaRSs in this process is more complex than previously thought .
The extracellular matrix (ECM) is a supracellular network that provides mechanical support and regulates cell behavior . Here , we investigate the role of the ECM in the development of the chitinous apical ECM of the Drosophila melanogaster trachea . We show that the apical ECM and apical actin rings are linked and that the apical ECM influences actin ring patterning . We identify a feedback mechanism that involves the modulation of the Src42A protein by the chitinous ECM , which in turn influences actin ring patterning . These results provide new insights into the relationship between the ECM and the cytoskeleton and suggest that the ECM is essential for the proper patterning of the cytoskeleton and the maintenance of cell polarity during development .
Answer: The main focus of the study is to investigate the neural mechanisms of hierarchical decision-making.
Humans learn abstract concepts through reward-guided learning . However , the neural basis of learning about reward probability is poorly understood . Here , we find that the neural patterns elicited by complex visual images were related to their payout probability through a shared neural representation on a mental number line . We propose that this shared neural code forms a conceptual basis set or ‘scaffold’ for learning new information , such as the reward probabilities associated with novel stimuli .
Salmonella pathogenicity island 2 ( SPI-2 ) is a virulence factor that is activated in the acidic vacuole of the intracellular host . However , the mechanism by which this occurs is unclear . Here we show that the acidic environment of the SCV activates the SPI-2 SsrA/B signaling system , which in turn increases the levels of SsrA and SsrB , and leads to increased DNA binding by SsrB . Our results reveal an important role for pH in the regulation of SPI-2 gene expression .
RalA and RalB are Ras-activated GTPases that are involved in cellular processes such as cell migration and proliferation . They are activated by Ras GTPases and Ral-guanine nucleotide exchange factors ( RalGEFs ) . In this work , we exploited an optogenetic approach to show that RalB activation recruits the Wave Regulatory Complex ( WRC ) at the plasma-membrane , which is involved in actin cytoskeleton regulation and cell motility . Using an isogenic pair of Ras-mutated cells , we showed that RalB activation is instructive in promoting cell invasion , and that this effect is independent of MAPK and PI3K pathways . We also showed that RalB expression is up-regulated in breast cancer samples , and that its expression increases with disease progression . Taken together , these findings highlight the potential of RalB as a therapeutic target for breast cancers .
Actin filaments play a central role in cellular processes such as cell migration and tissue morphogenesis . The elongation of actin filaments is thought to be driven by the binding of monomers to the lattice , but the rate constant for elongation at the barbed-end is not understood . Here , we use total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy to study actin filament elongation and show that the rate constant is different for the barbed-end and pointed-end . We also show that the pointed-end is in a kinetically inactive state and that the binding of proteins can alter filament elongation kinetics . These results suggest that the existing discrepancy in critical concentrations at both ends may be due to the presence of a non-elongating state at the pointed-end .
Gene regulation is critical for the proper functioning of cells . However , the molecular mechanisms of gene regulation are not well understood . One key challenge in understanding gene regulation is the lack of direct tools to link the stochastic events at the promoter region to transcript production . Here , we present a method to directly measure the kinetic rates of transcriptional promoter escape , elongation , and termination , and show that it can be used to dissect the full transcription cycle of the prototypical single-subunit RNA polymerase . The method is based on a fastFISH probe-target design rule that can be used to detect transcripts at sub-second time scales at single-molecule resolution . We use the method to study the transcription cycle of the T7 RNA polymerase and obtain kinetic estimates of promoter search , promoter binding , promoter escape , elongation , and termination .
Histone K-to-M mutations block the methylation of corresponding lysines on wild type histones . The mechanism by which these mutations block histone methylation is not well understood . Here , we establish an H3K9M model in fission yeast , which contains only three histone H3 genes and a single H3K9 methyltransferase Clr4 . We found that cells containing one copy of mutant H3K9M completely abolished H3K9me3 on the two other wild type copies of histone H3 across the entire genome . The formation of heterochromatin is divided into two distinct steps: initiation and spreading . We found that Clr4 is trapped at heterochromatin nucleation centers in cells containing H3K9M . The fact that H3K9M enhances the interaction between the SET domain of Clr4 and H3 tail suggests that the trapping of Clr4 is mediated by a direct interaction between H3K9M and the Clr4 SET domain . Our structure of G9a in complex with H3K9M and SAM provides the molecular details of how methionine interacts with histone methyltransferases .
P-TEFb is a key regulator of transcription elongation . The 7SK snRNP complex is a barrier to prevent P-TEFb from being recruited to Pol II CTD . The exact mechanism of P-TEFb release from 7SK snRNP complex is unknown . Here we report that JMJD6 is a novel protease of the 7SK snRNP complex . JMJD6 cleaves MePCE of the 7SK snRNP complex . The release of P-TEFb from 7SK snRNP complex is essential for the phosphorylation of Ser2-CTD of Pol II . JMJD6 associates with BRD4 and newly transcribed RNAs from Pol II to recruit P-TEFb . Our findings provide a novel transcription regulation pathway for genes regulated by promoter-proximal pausing Pol II .
PRDM9 is essential for homologous recombination and synapsis during meiosis . Here we show that the histone methyltransferase reader ZCWPW1 binds PRDM9-binding sites , which are enriched for H3K4me3 and H3K36me3 , and co-evolves with PRDM9 across species . In zcwpw1 knockout mice , DMC1 persists at hotspots , and synapsis is impaired , with defective repair of DSBs . These phenotypes can be explained by ZCWPW1’s direct recruitment to PRDM9-binding sites , and so linking PRDM9’s role in DSB positioning with its role in synapsis .
Xist is a noncoding RNA that silences one X chromosome in females and is a critical component of X-chromosome inactivation . Spen is a co-repressor that interacts with Xist and regulates X-chromosome inactivation . Here , we show that Spen binds to retrotransposon-derived RNA elements in the genome and recruits chromatin silencing machinery . In the absence of Spen , retrotransposon-derived RNA elements are upregulated and are associated with increased chromatin accessibility . Spen-mediated silencing is cis-restricted and can be recruited to Xist via the insertion of retrotransposon elements into Xist . Our findings suggest that retrotransposons may be an important mechanism for the evolution of Xist’s functionality .
T cells polarize during activation and form a distinctive immunological synapse to facilitate signaling and cytokine secretion . Kinesin-4 family member KIF21B is a regulatory factor in microtubule dynamics and its role in T cell polarization is poorly understood . Here , we show that KIF21B restricts microtubule length by inducing microtubule pausing and catastrophes . This inhibits centrosome polarization and T cell activation . Our computational model suggests that KIF21B regulates the force balance required for efficient centrosome translocation . Our findings suggest that proper control of microtubule length is important for efficient T cell polarization and that KIF21B plays a critical role in this process .
Hermaphrodites are animals that have both male and female reproductive organs . In Caenorhabditis elegans , a nematode worm , hermaphrodites can succumb to premature death after mating with males . Here , we show that young hermaphrodites are entirely protected from this detrimental effect . This protection is mediated by the presence of self-sperm , which can be activated by a sperm-sensing pathway in the soma . This pathway is conserved in other hermaphroditic nematodes , suggesting that this protection may have evolved independently in these lineages . The ability of self-sperm to protect the soma against the negative effects of males may also be conserved in other species , including mammals .
Mycobacterium tuberculosis is the causative agent of human tuberculosis . Growth and survival of M . tuberculosis in the human host is thought to depend on nitrogen assimilation , but the molecular and cellular mechanisms are poorly understood . Here we report a comprehensive analysis of nitrogen metabolism in M . tuberculosis , using a combination of bacterial physiology and stable isotope tracing coupled to mass spectrometry metabolomics . The results reveal that M . tuberculosis can uptake all 20 proteinogenic amino acids , and that Glu , Gln , Asp , and Asn are superior nitrogen sources to NH4+ . In addition , M . tuberculosis can co-metabolise multiple nitrogen sources . The results provide a comprehensive view of nitrogen metabolism in M . tuberculosis , which has not been investigated in the past .
Hypoxia-inducible factors (HIFs) are evolutionarily conserved transcriptional regulators that play key roles in coordinating the cellular response to hypoxia . HIFs have been shown to have oxygen-independent roles in early development in mammals , frogs , fish , and invertebrates . The mechanisms underlying these oxygen-independent roles are not well understood . Here , we identify a novel spliced variant of the zebrafish HIF-3α , Hif-3α2 , which lacks the bHLH and PAS domains but is oxygen-insensitive and has HRE-dependent transcriptional activity . Overexpression of Hif-3α2 causes left-right asymmetry defects in zebrafish embryos and impairs Wnt/β-catenin signaling . We show that Hif-3α2 binds to β-catenin and destabilizes the nuclear β-catenin complex through a mechanism independent of GSKβ/β-TrCP-mediated degradation . These results suggest that Hif-3α2 has oxygen-independent roles in early development .
Stem cells and their associated supportive niche cells are centrally important to development ( Murry and Keller , 2008; Zhu and Huangfu , 2013 ) , homeostatic tissue maintenance ( Biteau et al . , 2011; Blanpain and Fuchs , 2009; Snippert et al . , 2010; Wilson et al . , 2008 ) , aging ( Rao and Mattson , 2001 ) , regeneration ( Sánchez Alvarado and Yamanaka , 2014 ) , cancer ( Reyes et al . , 2001 ) , and tissue engineering ( Ruder et al . , 2011 ) . The canonical stem cell niche is a stem cell-associated niche cell complex that maintains the stem cell daughter in the niche . How stem cell progeny exit the niche is less understood . Here , we report that a somatic gonad sheath cell ( Sh1 ) extends distally and in contact with distal germ cells , with the somatic cell-associated progenitor zone of the germ line stem cell niche comprising three anatomical compartments—DTC-Sh1 interface , Sh1 , and DTC—where germ cells divide asymmetrically towards the Sh1 cell . This asymmetric division and somatic cell-associated somatic cell contact segregates germ cells from their progeny , which become differentiated . We propose that the distal Sh1 cell acts as a somatic niche-adjacent cell that regulates stem cell niche exit .
The physical environment of biological macromolecules is important for their function and the effect of crowding on in vivo functioning is a major concern . Here , we report the results of a comprehensive molecular dynamics simulation study of the cytoplasm of the bacterium Mycoplasma genitalium , which is the first detailed model of a cytoplasmic environment at the atomic level . We find that the crowded environment affects the structure of proteins and metabolites and induces weak protein-protein interactions . The presence of metabolites causes significant compaction of proteins and reduces the effective concentration of metabolites and ligands in vivo . Our findings highlight the importance of the cytoplasmic environment for the function of biological macromolecules and suggest that the physical environment is a major factor in determining the in vivo behavior of biological macromolecules .
The influenza virus HA protein mediates viral entry into host cells by inducing membrane fusion between the viral and endosomal membranes . We report here on a series of experiments that show that the intermediate state between initial binding and hemifusion is a long-lived extended intermediate . We show that the extended intermediate is rate limiting for virion arrest and for hemifusion , and that its lifetime depends on the pH of the environment . We propose that the extended intermediate is the intermediate state shown in Figure 1A , and that it plays a critical role in the influenza-virus fusion mechanism .
The cortical network is a complex system that is responsible for processing and storing information . A complete description of the network is necessary to develop models that can simulate and predict the behavior of the network , but such a description has yet to be achieved . Here , we describe the connectivity and dynamics of excitatory neurons in the adult mouse and human cortex . We show that excitatory neurons in the mouse and human cortex are connected in a sparse , recurrent manner , with a low rate of connectivity . We also demonstrate that the connectivity varies across cell classes and that the strength and kinetics of synaptic connections depend on the number of synaptic inputs . We provide a computational model of the short-term dynamics of recurrent synaptic connections and use it to generate a complete , quantitative description of the cortical circuit .
The neural circuits that control aggression are not well understood , and it is unclear whether these circuits are conserved across phylogeny . Here we show that a subset of male-specific P1 neurons in Drosophila promote aggression and wing extension . We screened a large population of GAL4 lines for flies that exhibited increased aggression , and found that three lines also displayed both increased aggression and wing extension . These flies were found to express P1 interneurons , which are known to control male courtship behavior . Activation of P1 neurons promoted aggression and wing extension , while inhibition of P1 neurons suppressed aggression and wing extension . These results indicate that P1 neurons are not specifically dedicated to courtship , but rather can control aggression and wing extension . Furthermore , we show that P1 neurons can induce a persistent internal state that enhances aggression and wing extension . Our results provide new insights into how social behaviors are regulated in the brain .
We resequenced the genomes of 13 meiotic tetrads and 10 doubled haploid ( DH ) offspring of Arabidopsis thaliana hybrids . The 80-kb transposition Methyl-CpG-binding protein 4 ( Methyl-CpG-binding protein 4 ) , which leads to copy-number variation , was identified . The recovery of a ∼80-kb transposition that through crossover recombination leads to duplications and deletions in the offspring underlines the potential of meiosis to not only create new allele combinations but also to cause copy-number alterations of transposed sequences . Recombination events were closely associated with un-methylated , AT rich promoter regions , and nucleosome-free regions .
Answer: The purpose of the study is to investigate the effects of fatigue on motor-skill learning.
Poly ( ADP ribose ) polymerase ( PARPi ) inhibitors are widely used to treat BRCA1-deficient cancers . However , PARPi resistance is a major clinical challenge . Here , we show that loss of the inhibitors of long-range resection , 53BP1 and Rev7 , allows BRCA1-deficient cells to employ a RecQ helicase-dependent pathway for long-range resection , which is much faster than the Exo1-dependent pathway . This hyper-resection pathway is associated with the ability to re-sensitize BRCA1-deficient cells to PARPi .
The evolution of complex traits is influenced by genetic variation that acts conditionally , but the extent and architecture of such variation is unknown . We explored natural variation in the highly stereotyped process of embryogenesis in Caenorhabditis elegans , which is both controlled and invariant , and therefore may be expected to be free of conditionally-functional alleles . We found that embryonic lethality was highly variable among wild-type strains , and that this variation was caused by cryptic alleles that modulate the effect of gene perturbations . We identified 41 embryonic genes that exhibited gene-specific variation , and found that these alleles were highly heritable . We also found that embryonic lethality phenotypes were associated with germline RNAi sensitivity , and that wild strains showed genome-wide genetic variation that modifies RNAi sensitivity . We demonstrate that complex traits are built from a large number of highly specific alleles , and that genetic variation that acts conditionally is pervasive in natural populations .
In ecological niches such as soil , microbial populations can be composed of diverse subpopulations with different metabolic specializations . In bacterial populations , metabolic specialization can be achieved by segregating metabolic pathways into different cells , allowing cells to adapt to changing conditions . We investigate this idea in the soil bacterium Bacillus subtilis , using fluorescent reporters to monitor metabolic gene expression in single cells . We show that cells can switch between two distinct metabolic states , one of which involves acetate production and the other acetoin production . We show that acetate production induces a subset of cells to switch into the acetoin production state . This metabolic switch is linked to the competence system , which is known to control acetate production . Our findings demonstrate that metabolic specialization can occur within a clonal bacterial population , and that this specialization can be influenced by environmental cues .
DNA replication is often impaired by a variety of obstacles in and on the DNA template . However , the significance of these barriers for genome maintenance is poorly understood . Here , we show that the replication fork barrier RTS1 in fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe can induce recombination to overcome a replication fork blockage . We show that the replication fork barrier RTS1-AO can induce recombination within 60 min of fork blockage , and that recombination persists over long distances downstream of the barrier . Furthermore , we find that fork convergence is not required for recombination and that recombination is not an alternative to fork merging . Our study shows that recombination is an alternative mechanism for restoring replication forks that have collided with replication fork barriers , and that it can be used to overcome DNA damage that arises during S-phase .
The extent to which recombination events in meiosis result in non-crossover gene conversion ( NCO ) is unknown . We analyzed 98 meioses from 34 three-generation Mexican American pedigrees using genotype array data . We identified 103 NCO sites , of which 50/52 are confirmed in whole genome sequence data . The rate of NCO per bp is 5.9 × 10−6/generation . GC transmission is observed at 68% of NCO sites . NCO events occur at a wide range of recombination rates , but are most frequent in regions with high recombination . We identified complex NCO resolutions that involve multiple NCO tracts within short intervals of one another , as well as NCO events that overlap hotspots for mitotic recombination . Our study provides the first genome-wide characterization of NCO in mammals and highlights the importance of this repair pathway in shaping mammalian evolution .
XRCC4 and XLF form filaments that bridge DNA to facilitate repair of DNA double-strand breaks . Here we show that the C-terminal tails of XRCC4 and XLF are phosphorylated by DNA-PKcs and ATM in response to DNA damage . Phosphorylation of the C-terminal tails stabilizes XRCC4/XLF complexes , enhances DNA bridging , and promotes XRCC4/XLF activity . However , phospho-mimicking mutations in the disordered tails abate DNA bridging , and impair cellular survival after exposure to radio-mimetic drugs , especially those that induce complex DNA lesions . Our findings suggest that phosphorylation of XRCC4/XLF may not be required for their ability to stimulate DNA ligase activity , but may be important for their ability to facilitate DNA bridging .
The p21 protein is a negative regulator of the cell cycle and a tumor suppressor . However , p21 levels in cycling cells are low and its role in DNA replication is unknown . Here we show that p21 is required for the proper execution of the DNA replication program during unperturbed S phase . The depletion of p21 causes the recruitment of alternative DNA polymerase κ ( Pol κ ) to the replication forks , leading to the accumulation of DNA replication stress markers and genomic instability . The recruitment of Pol κ to replication factories is dependent on the PCNA-interacting region ( PIR ) of p21 . The depletion of p21 leads to the accumulation of micronuclei and chromosomal instability in primary cells . Our findings reveal a novel role of p21 in the maintenance of genome stability .
PINK1 is a Parkin-interacting kinase that phosphorylates ubiquitin and promotes ubiquitin-proteasome degradation in mitochondria. Mutations in PINK1 are associated with an early-onset form of Parkinson’s disease (PD). Here we report the crystal structure of Tribolium castaneum ( TcPINK1 ) , a fruit fly ortholog of human PINK1 . The structure reveals a bowl-shaped binding site for ubiquitin that is critical for either TcPINK1 or hPINK1 mediated ubiquitin and Parkin Ubl phosphorylation . Furthermore , we have elaborated an important regulatory role for TcPINK1 autophosphorylation of Serine205 , which together with the third insertion , aids in physiological substrate recognition . These findings provide molecular insights into the mechanisms of hPINK1 kinase activity , ubiquitin substrate recognition , and define the molecular basis of PD-linked mutations .
Mast cells are key mediators of immune responses to infection and inflammation . In this study , we have identified mast cells as key cellular mediators of vascular leakage in DENV-infected animals and humans . We have shown that mast cell activation is associated with vascular permeability in DENV-infected animals and humans . We have also found that the mast cell-specific product chymase is elevated in human DENV patients and is a biomarker for the severity of DHF . Our findings highlight the critical role that mast cells may play in the pathogenesis of DENV-induced vascular leakage .
Alexander disease ( AxD ) is a rare and invariably fatal neurological disorder caused by mutations in the glial fibrillary acidic protein ( GFAP ) gene . The main cause of AxD is the accumulation of abnormal GFAP aggregates in the brain , which are known as Rosenthal fibers ( RFs ) . Using patient brain tissue and human iPSC-derived astrocytes , we show that the phosphorylation of GFAP Ser-13 promotes GFAP aggregation and is associated with the most severe form of AxD . Furthermore , we show that caspase-6 , which is expressed in the brain tissue of young AxD patients , is a new marker for the most severe form of the disease . These findings highlight the importance of phosphorylation of GFAP-Ser13 in the pathogenesis of the most severe form of AxD and suggest that monitoring the levels of this phospho-epitope may provide added sensitivity for disease activity .
Mosquitoes are the most important vectors of human diseases , yet their ecology and population dynamics remain largely unmapped . Here , we propose using mobile phones as networked acoustic sensors for mosquito surveillance . We demonstrate that mobile phones can be used to collect high-quality acoustic recordings of wingbeat sounds from a variety of mosquito vector species , which can be used to identify species with high accuracy . We show that mobile phones can be used to map mosquito species and their spatial distribution in the field , by combining acoustic recordings with location metadata . Our method has the potential to enable mosquito surveillance in resource-constrained areas , where specialized equipment is not available .
The role of positive selection in immunodominance is not well understood . Here we used the MCC model antigen system to investigate the relationship between a positively selecting self-peptide and the specificity of the selected TCRs . We generated a transgenic mouse expressing a self-peptide that positively selects a TCR , gp250 . In gp250 SC mice , the positively selected TCR was Vα11+Vβ3+ , and the specificity of the post-selection TCR repertoire was highly organized , with conserved CDR3 features . Positively selecting self-peptide gp250 also skewed the selection of TCRs toward MCC-reactive Vα11+Vβ3+ T cells . Our data show that a single positively selecting self-peptide can greatly influence the specificity of T cell responses .
The main focus of the study mentioned in the text is to investigate the persistence of topography in the primary somatosensory cortex of amputees.
Alternative splicing ( AS ) is a posttranscriptional gene regulation mechanism that allows the production of multiple protein isoforms from a single gene . The ESrps are a family of splicing regulatory proteins that control AS in epithelial cells . Here we define the cis- and trans-acting determinants of AS in mammalian epidermis and demonstrate the role of AS in maintaining normal epidermal cell function . We generated mice with conditional and/or germline deletion of the ESrps and observed phenotypes in embryos , including defects in craniofacial development and skin hypoplasia . Global epidermis RNA sequencing revealed a differential requirement for ESrps in splicing events in vivo . We evaluated the splicing of 25 ESrps targets and identified differentially regulated splicing events in response to loss of ESrps . We also identified differentially expressed genes and enriched functional GO terms associated with the differentially regulated splicing events . The results demonstrate the requirement of ESrps for normal epidermal cell function and provide a genetic model to evaluate the role of AS in epithelial cell function and human disease .
Lipocalin-2 (LCN2) is an endogenous hormone that regulates food intake and metabolism in mice . Here we report that LCN2 also regulates appetite in humans and non-human primates . We show that circulating LCN2 increases after meals in healthy humans , and that this postprandial increase correlates with a decrease in hunger sensation . In non-human primates , the recombinant human LCN2 crosses the blood-brain barrier and suppresses food intake . In humans , LCN2 levels increase in lean subjects but not in those with obesity . These findings suggest that LCN2 could be an effective treatment for obesity .
The barrel cortex is involved in wall-tracking , but the neural code of the barrel cortex is unknown . Here , we show that barrel cortex activity is necessary for wall-tracking in head-fixed mice , and that neural responses to wall-interaction are graded . Barrel cortex activity can drive wall-tracking by unilateral activation , and tuning curves in barrel cortex neurons are complex and multimodal . The neural code of the barrel cortex is more complex and flexible than previously thought .
The main challenge in developing effective antigen-based immunotherapies is silencing antigen-experienced effector T cells that drive ongoing immune pathology . We report that peptide immunotherapy ( PIT ) silences effector T cells by inducing PD-1 expression , which is required for tolerizing T cells . PIT also drives demethylation of the Pdcd1 promoter , which correlates with loss of 5-hydroxymethylcytosine ( 5hmC ) and maintenance of PD-1 expression . This is the first study to identify a requirement for epigenetic changes at the Pdcd1 locus for T cell tolerizing potential .
The role of wild grass grains in the diets of prehistoric foragers is still debated . Here , we provide evidence for the consumption of wild grass grains and domesticated plants by foragers in the Danube Gorges of the central Balkans since ~9500 cal BC . We analyzed dental calculus from 61 individuals and ground stone tools (GSTs) from 24 individuals , which were found to have processed plant food . Our results suggest that the consumption of wild grass grains was passed down through generations in this regional context up to the first contacts of foragers with Neolithic farmers in the second half of the seventh millennium BC .
In cancer , genetic mutations , chromosomal rearrangements , and copy number amplifications are common mechanisms of alteration that drive tumorigenesis . However , other alteration mechanisms may also contribute to cancer . Here , we identify premature cleavage and polyadenylation ( pPA ) as a novel driver alteration mechanism in human breast cancer . We find that premature polyadenylation of the MAGI3 gene causes the expression of a truncated MAGI3 protein that inhibits the Hippo tumor suppressor pathway and promotes malignant transformation . Our findings implicate MAGI3 as a novel driver of breast cancer and suggest that pPA is a mechanism of alteration capable of contributing to breast cancer .
Zebrafish larvae exhibit prey capture behavior in response to small moving objects . We used a head-fixed preparation to quantify the behavior and identify the neural mechanisms involved . We found that a subset of retinal ganglion cells ( RGCs ) project to the pretectal region , a region in the midbrain that is involved in prey capture behavior . We further found that prey capture behavior is mediated by a class of neurons in the pretectal region that project to the nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus and the hindbrain . These findings identify a specific circuit in the pretectal region that confers prey selectivity on a subset of RGCs .
Cooperation in social insect colonies is supported by social circulatory systems that transfer resources from individuals to the colony . We analyzed the proteins in trophallactic fluid , the social circulatory system of the carpenter ant Camponotus floridanus . We found that the proteins in the trophallactic fluid are involved in oxidative stress and ageing , and they affect the colony’s life cycle by circulating proteins that influence the behavior and physiology of individuals . We show that trophallactic fluid proteins change in abundance and composition depending on the colony’s life stage and behavioral caste , and that the most abundant proteins in the trophallactic fluid are predominantly involved in metabolism . Our results provide a unique opportunity to study how individuals share metabolic resources and how this can be linked to colony-level physiology and life cycle .
Single-structure models derived from X-ray data do not account for the inherent dynamics of protein molecules . Here we describe a new method that extracts dynamical details from X-ray diffraction data by generating ensembles of structures using an ensemble refinement method . We show that the method improves the Rfree of 20 protein datasets and provides detailed information on the atomic fluctuations that may be mechanistically relevant for the biological function of the macromolecules . The ensembles reveal that some proteins have a molten core , while others have a well-ordered core . Furthermore , the ensembles indicate specific order-disorder transitions or conformational exchanges between active site and core residues that suggest a mechanism of entropy compensation to support enzymatic activity .
The mechanisms of gene-environment interaction in a multifactorial model of holoprosencephaly ( HPE ) are not understood . Cdon is a co-receptor for Nodal signaling , which is critical for the proper patterning of the embryo . Cdon mutation is associated with HPE in humans and mice . We demonstrate that Cdon mutation and fetal alcohol exposure synergize to induce HPE by interfering with Nodal signaling . Fetal alcohol exposure inhibits Nodal signaling in mouse epiblast stem cells , and inhibits expression of Nodal target genes in the anterior primitive streak ( APS ) of Cdon-/- embryos . Cdon mutation and fetal alcohol synergize to induce HPE in C57BL/6J mice . Cdon;Tdgf1 double mutants display phenotypes resembling Nodal pathway hypomorphs , and Cdon;Lrp2 double mutants display phenotypes similar to mice with hypomorphic Nodal pathway mutations . Cdon and LRP2 bind to TDGF1 , and TDGF1 is a critical component of the Nodal receptor . Our findings illuminate mechanisms of gene-environment interaction in a high fidelity , multifactorial model of a common birth defect .
Vasopressin ( AVP ) is a key regulator of water balance in the body . While the main function of AVP is to increase water reabsorption , the neural mechanisms that mediate this process are poorly understood . Here , we identify the key neural inputs that regulate AVP release and show that they are organized in two distinct circuits: one that mediates water-related presystemic regulation and another that mediates food-related presystemic regulation . We show that water-related presystemic regulation of AVP neurons is mediated by the lamina terminalis ( LT ) , which receives inputs from various sources . In contrast , food-related presystemic regulation is mediated by an as yet unidentified neuronal population in the arcuate nucleus ( ARC ) . Our findings provide a neural circuit basis for differential regulation of AVP release by diverse behavioral and physiological stimuli .
Answer: The purpose of the study is to demonstrate that very young children were active members of the Upper Palaeolithic populations, even in apparently dangerous and social activities.
The Drosophila larva is a well-established model for learning and memory formation . We introduce a new assay for associative learning in larvae , and use it to demonstrate the formation of long-lasting memories in this model system . We find that the larvae’s innate avoidance of CO2 is reduced by associative learning , and that repeated exposure to CO2 without reward can erase this memory . We also find that overnight consolidation of this memory is dependent on de novo protein synthesis .
Bats use echolocation to navigate in the dark. Bats emit sound waves and use the echoes to build a mental map of their environment. The echoes contain information about the distance and position of objects. The echoes also encode the shape and texture of objects. The echoes are thought to be used to recognize places. The echoes are thought to be used to build a 3D model of the environment. In this study , we collected large amounts of ensonification data in three different habitats. We found that the echoes were uniquely classified and varied continuously across space. This suggests that bats recognize places by remembering their echo signature rather than their 3D layout. Our results provide insights into how bats recognize places using echolocation.
The Sec machinery is a complex of proteins and lipids that drives protein secretion in all forms of life . It consists of SecYEG in the plasma membrane of prokaryotes and Sec61αβ in the ER of eukaryotes . SecYEG is a hetero-trimeric membrane protein , while Sec61αβ is a protein complex . SecYEG is the translocon , while Sec61αβ is the ATPase . The SecYEG-Sec61αβ complex is a proton-powered, two-way communication system that couples ATP hydrolysis to substrate movement . Here , we combine molecular dynamics simulations with biochemical and single molecule fluorescence assays to reveal the mechanism of SecYEG-Sec61αβ . We find that the channel of SecYEG opens and closes in response to changes in the nucleotide binding site of SecA , regulating the rate of ATP exchange and the translocation of proteins across the membrane . The SecYEG-Sec61αβ complex is a new example of a 'Brownian ratchet' , which could underlie mechanisms of other motors .
Sexual differentiation in the nervous system of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans is regulated by the heterochronic pathway , which controls the timing of sex-specific neural maturation . Here , we show that the heterochronic pathway regulates the timing of male-specific neural maturation in the nervous system . We identify the lin-29 Zn finger transcription factor as a sexually dimorphic effector of the heterochronic pathway . lin-29 is required for male-specific expression of the AIM neurotransmitter switch , which controls male-specific features of the AIM and CEM neurons . We also show that lin-29 acts in a modular manner , regulating distinct sex-specific neuron classes with distinct output regulators . Our findings reveal a new mechanism that controls the timing of sexual maturation in the nervous system and suggest a conservation of this mechanism in mammals .
The evolution of sexual reproduction in eukaryotes has allowed for genetic diversity , which is critical for adaptation and survival in a changing environment . The germline , which is responsible for the transmission of genetic information across generations , is critical for this process . We have identified a protein that is essential for reproduction in both animals and plants , and has been present in the last common ancestor of extant eukaryotes . The GCNA protein is a member of a family of proteins that share a conserved disordered region and are expressed in cells carrying a heritable genome . The GCNA protein has a unique combination of structured and disordered domains that is present across all eukaryotes . We propose that the GCNA protein has been specialized for cells carrying a heritable genome across eukarya .
The oviduct is critical for fertilization and preimplantation embryo development . However , the mechanisms by which the oviduct supports fertilization and embryo development are not understood . Here , we show that estrogen signaling via the estrogen receptor α ( ERα ) in the oviduct epithelial cells regulates expression of secreted proteases and protease inhibitors ( PIs ) , both of which can cause protease-mediated embryo lysis . We find that oviducts lacking epithelial ERα have increased protease activity and that this results in premature lysis of zygotes and embryos . In contrast , oviducts lacking mesenchymal ERα have normal protease and PI expression and fertilization and embryo development occur normally . We conclude that estrogen signaling via epithelial ERα in the oviduct is required for fertilization and embryo development .
FOXL2 is a transcription factor that regulates the expression of genes involved in ovarian function . We investigated the targets of FOXL2 in cultured primary follicular cells and found that it mainly binds to intronic regions of its targets . We identified a new regulatory element in the 8th intron of Esr2 , which is required for the expression of ESR2 . We show that FOXL2 is required for the expression of ESR2 and that ESR2 is the main effector of 17β-estradiol ( E2 ) signaling in these cells . Our data suggest that FOXL2 establishes a coherent feed-forward loop in which FOXL2 stimulates both estradiol production and receptivity to maintain granulosa cell identity .
The vomeronasal organ ( VNO ) is a sensory system that detects pheromones and triggers innate behaviors . The pheromone receptors have been identified , but their functions remain unknown . Here , we identify vomeronasal receptors that recognize female-specific gender cues and estrus signals , and show that both are required to trigger male courtship behaviors . These cues are detected by multiple members of the vomeronasal receptor clade , suggesting that pheromone information is redundant in the VNO . Thus , the VNO system may harness these two opposing logical mechanisms to fulfill divergent duties in pheromone signal processing: detecting cues with high sensitivity while preventing non-specific induction of behaviors by false signals .
Transcription factors ( TFs ) can bind to two distinct DNA sequences . This phenomenon is termed 'dual specificity' . The molecular mechanism behind this phenomenon has not been elucidated . Here , we have used crystallographic and thermodynamic analyses of two TFs , HOXB13 and CDX2 , to understand the molecular mechanism behind dual specificity . We show that dual specificity is due to the presence of both enthalpic and entropic optima in the binding process .
FliD is the flagellar capping protein of Pseudomonas aeruginosa , which is responsible for flagella formation . Here , we report the crystal structure of FliD at 2 . 2 Å resolution , and show that it forms hexamers in crystals and in solution . We also show that FliD forms hexamers that are fully functional in vivo , resulting in the formation of flagella and swimming motility in Pseudomonas bacteria .
