The cerebellum has been implicated in the learning and execution of movement sequences . Most of what we know about cerebellar mechanisms of movement sequences comes from studies utilizing single component movements . In this study we demonstrate that the cerebellum can use feedback signals from one component to serve as a cue for the next component in a sequence . We show that feedback signals from the first component in a sequence are sufficient to induce the cerebellum to learn the second component . This learning is dependent on the cerebellar cortex and the same cerebellar mechanisms that are involved in learning single component movements are sufficient to learn movement sequences . The results provide a framework for how the cerebellum can use simple associate learning processes to chain together a sequence of appropriately timed responses to produce a movement sequence .
The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is a serine/threonine kinase that controls cellular metabolism and growth. mTOR is part of two distinct multiprotein complexes, mTORC1 and mTORC2. Here we report the structure of the human mTORC2 at 7.4 Å resolution. The mTORC2 complex consists of mTOR , mLST8 , Rictor , SIN1 and Protor-1 . The structure of the complex reveals the binding site for the accessory proteins Rictor and SIN1 and the deepening of the active site cleft , which is important for its function . The mTORC2 structure also explains the rapamycin insensitivity of the complex .
The neural circuits that originally process space are co-opted to process number . We show that this adaptation effect is not limited to early visual areas , but can occur in parietal cortex , which is sensitive to purely spatial features . We propose that the cross-adaptation effect is mediated by a two-pool opponent coding model , in which adaptation of large numbers leads to increased activity in a pool that responds to small numbers , leading to overestimation of numerosity .
Gene expression and metabolism are coupled at numerous levels . Here we identify a novel mechanism of gene regulation by fatty acids . Msi1 is a RNA-binding protein that is expressed in stem and progenitor cells of neural and epithelial lineage . Msi1 inhibition by oleic acid is mediated by a hydrophobic cavity that binds the carboxyl group of oleic acid . The presence of oleic acid alters the secondary structure of Msi1 and perturbs the position of amino acids that interact with RNA . Msi1 regulates stearoyl-CoA desaturase-1 ( Scd1 ) mRNA expression , and inhibition of Scd1 by oleic acid increases the amount of Scd1 and Scd1-associated proteolysis products in HEK293T cells . Our results suggest that Msi1 regulates cellular proliferation through a feedback loop that includes Scd1 and its enzymatic products , such as oleic acid .
Synaptotagmin 7 ( syt 7 ) is a conserved Ca2+-binding protein that is required for synaptic vesicle replenishment , but its specific function in neurons remains obscure . Here , we show that syt 7 functions as a Ca2+ sensor for synaptic vesicle replenishment , and that the Ca2+-binding protein CaM is an essential partner for this process . We demonstrate that CaM and syt 7 cooperate to regulate Ca2+-dependent synaptic vesicle replenishment , and that this complex serves as a key regulator of synaptic vesicle replenishment in presynaptic nerve terminals .
Stress exacerbates mood and anxiety disorders . Cyclooxygenase-2 ( COX-2 ) inhibition has been proposed as a novel therapeutic approach for mood and anxiety disorders . Here , we investigated the effects of COX-2 inhibition on stress-induced anxiety-like behavior in mice . We show that COX-2 inhibition reduces stress-induced anxiety-like behavior in two separate assays ( novelty-induced hypophagia and elevated-plus maze ) , and reduces conditioned fear expression in both assays . The anxiolytic-like effects of COX-2 inhibition were mediated by small-conductance calcium-activated potassium ( SK ) channel activation and CB1 cannabinoid receptor activation . Furthermore , COX-2 inhibition reduced basolateral amygdala ( BLA ) neuronal excitability in both ex-vivo and in-vivo assays . These findings suggest that COX-2 inhibition could be a novel treatment approach for stress-related psychiatric disorders .
Membrane proteins are difficult to work with because of their insolubility in aqueous solution and poor stability in detergent micelles . Here we present the peptidisc , a peptide-based method to stabilize membrane proteins in aqueous solution . The peptidisc is a water-soluble particle that wraps around the membrane-exposed part of the target protein and captures it in a functional state . The peptidisc is stable under a wide range of conditions and can be easily reconstituted with membrane proteins of different size , topology , and complexity . The peptidisc is therefore a universal tool for high-throughput stabilization of membrane proteins to advance modern biological studies .
Transcript errors refer to inconsistencies between RNA transcripts and their corresponding genomic loci . Transcript errors can directly cause dysfunctions due to the regulatory roles of small RNAs and the fate determination of mRNAs by RNA structural motifs . In this study , we applied a modified rolling-circle sequencing approach to identify transcript errors in four prokaryotes . A total of 9929 transcript errors were identified , with transcript-error rates ranging from 5 . 84±0 . 10 ( SEM ) ×10-6 to 7 . 26±0 . 35 ( SEM ) ×10-6 . Transcript errors were found to be 3 to 4 orders of magnitude higher than the corresponding genetic mutation rates . An increased frequency of nonsense errors towards the 3' end of mRNAs was observed , suggesting a Nonsense-Mediated Decay-like quality-control mechanism in prokaryotes .
Sensory deprivation in the adult human brain is thought to be a powerful driver of plasticity . However , little is known about how experience-driven plasticity in the adult human brain transcends boundaries after sensory deprivation . Here , we show that adaptive limb usage patterns drive cortical plasticity in individuals with unilateral hand absence . Using functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI ) and diffusion tensor imaging ( DTI ) , we demonstrate that the deprived cortex is employed by whichever limb individuals are over-using , irrespective of age at deprivation . Individuals who rely more on their intact hands show increased representation of the intact hand in the deprived cortex , whereas individuals who rely more on their residual arms show increased representation of their residual arm in the deprived cortex . These findings demonstrate that experience-driven plasticity can transcend boundaries after sensory deprivation in adults .
Haematopoiesis occurs in the bone marrow of most tetrapods . This haematopoietic function is thought to have been acquired in the water-to-land transition , which is not supported by fossil evidence . We investigate the bone microanatomy of the earliest tetrapods to elucidate the evolution of the bone marrow and long-bone growth in stem tetrapods . We show that the early evolution of long bones in stem tetrapods is characterised by the presence of marrow processes opening onto the medullary cavity of the shaft and the absence of a centralised vascular network . We propose that the migration of haematopoiesis into the bone marrow was not an exaptation predating the water-to-land transition .
Maladaptive responses to stress are a hallmark of alcohol use disorder , but the underlying mechanisms are not well characterized . Here , we show that KOR-mediated Pdyn signaling in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis ( BNST ) is a critical molecular substrate for alcohol-induced dysregulation of stress responses during protracted abstinence . Pdyn/KOR signaling in the BNST was increased following chronic EtOH drinking and stress exposure . Moreover , dysregulation of cortical inputs to the BNST , particularly from the prefrontal cortex ( PFC ) , enhanced Pdyn/KOR signaling in the BNST during protracted abstinence . In addition , Pdyn deletion and mPFC-BNST inhibition restored abnormal behavioral responses to stress following chronic EtOH drinking . These results suggest that increased corticolimbic drive may contribute to abnormal stress behavioral responses to predator odor following heavy alcohol drinking .
Translation elongation factor eEF1A is known to regulate protein synthesis , but its role in the heat shock response (HSR) is poorly understood . Here , we report that eEF1A1 is a key component of the HSR in mammalian cells . Inhibition of eEF1A1 in mammalian cells compromises the HSR by diminishing HSP70 protein levels and thermotolerance . eEF1A1 is required for the stress-induced recruitment of HSF1 to the HSP70 promoter , and it mediates the stress-induced activation of HSP70 transcription by interacting with RNAPII and HSP70 mRNA . eEF1A1 also mediates HSP70 mRNA export from the nucleus and loading of HSP70 mRNA into polysomes . The results suggest that eEF1A1 is an attractive therapeutic target for conditions associated with disrupted protein homeostasis , such as neurodegeneration and cancer .
The chromatin state of stem cells determines their fate . How plant cells transition from stem cell to primordium founder cell is poorly understood . Here we show that auxin-regulated transcription factor MONOPTEROS ( MP ) anchors chromatin remodeling ATPases to its target loci in the organogenic region of the shoot apex to unlock compacted chromatin . MP recruits the chromatin remodeling complexes BRM/SYD to increase accessibility of MP bound loci . In the absence of auxin , MP interacting Aux/IAA proteins prevent chromatin remodeling and recruit the transcriptional co-repressor TPL and histone deacetylase HDA19 to prevent MP activation . These data uncover a new mechanism for auxin-directed transcriptional and cell fate reprogramming .
Deletions of the long arm of chromosome 7 (−7/del ) are highly prevalent in myelodysplastic syndrome ( MDS ) and acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) . We generated mice with a heterozygous germ line deletion of a 2-Mb interval of chromosome band 5A3 that corresponds to a 7q22 commonly deleted segment in MDS patients . 5A3+/del mice have reduced bone marrow cellularity and spleen weights , a myeloid lineage bias in hematopoiesis , impaired lymphoid repopulating potential , and a pronounced expansion of common myeloid progenitors and hematopoietic stem cells ( HSCs ) with age . The 5A3+/del HSCs exhibit reduced expression of multiple genes encoding proteins involved in mitochondrial quality control , protein degradation , biosynthesis of N-acylethanolamines , and DNA replication . These abnormalities support a role of 7q22 deletions in MDS pathogenesis .
The somatosensory nervous system is critical for the organism's ability to respond to mechanical , thermal , and nociceptive stimuli . Despite the diversity of somatosensory neurons , little is known about their molecular profiles . Here we purify somatosensory neurons in the mouse dorsal root ganglion ( DRG ) using two mouse reporter lines and surface IB4-FITC labeling . We find that the three major somatosensory neuron populations are enriched for different ion channels , transcription factors , and G-protein coupled receptors ( GPCRs ) , with distinct functional profiles . We also find that there are at least seven distinct somatosensory neuron subgroups within the three major populations , each with their own unique transcriptional profiles . Our findings reveal a high degree of molecular heterogeneity and complexity of somatosensory neurons and suggest that there may be many novel subtypes of sensory neurons that have not yet been characterized .
Meiosis is the process by which diploid organisms produce haploid gametes . A critical aspect of meiosis is crossover recombination , which ensures that each pair of homologous chromosomes contains at least one recombination intermediate . Although crossover recombination is highly regulated , the molecular mechanisms underlying this control are poorly understood . Here we report that four RING finger proteins , ZHP-1–4 , are required for crossover control in Caenorhabditis elegans . The ZHP proteins localize to the synaptonemal complex , a liquid-like compartment that assembles between paired homologs , and are required for crossover formation . ZHP-1 and -2 are required for crossover formation in a subset of recombination intermediates , while ZHP-3 and -4 are required for the asymmetric localization of these factors . ZHP-1/2 also promote chromosome remodeling following crossover designation . Our results indicate that crossover control in C . elegans is mediated by a hierarchical circuit that acts at the top of a hierarchy of crossover-regulating factors , including the synaptonemal complex and the crossover itself .
APC/C-mediated proteolysis of cyclin B and securin is essential for mitotic exit , but the extent to which dephosphorylation and protein synthesis contribute to the process remains unclear . Here we show that high temporal-resolution mass spectrometry reveals that phosphatase activity , not proteolysis , is responsible for the order of events during mitotic exit . We identify a preferential phospho-site motif in PP1-dependent substrates and propose that this is the basis for phosphatase-mediated anaphase regulation .
Major depressive disorder ( MDD ) is a prevalent illness that can be precipitated by acute or chronic stress . Depressive behaviors are often observed in patients with Wolfram syndrome , a rare genetic disorder that is caused by mutations in the Wfs1 gene . The cerebral cortex is thought to play a critical role in depression , but the specific cell types that are involved in the regulation of depressive behaviors are not known . Here , we have used a genetic approach to identify a novel layer 2/3 pyramidal cell type in the medial prefrontal cortex ( mPFC ) of mice that expresses the Wolframin ( Wfs1 ) gene . These cells are found in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of patients with Wolfram syndrome , and are also present in a conditional mutant mouse model of Wfs1 . We show that Wfs1-expressing pyramidal cells in the mPFC are required for normal responses to stress and that dysfunction in these cells contributes to enhanced responses to stress-induced depressive behaviors .
Protein function is regulated by a multitude of mechanisms that vary in their localization and specificity . Here , we investigate the role of conformational confinement in the chaperone protein Hsp90 . We directly observe protein regulation by single-molecule FRET and disentangle the effects of point mutations , protein-protein interactions , and macro-molecular crowding . We find that conformational confinement plays a crucial role in protein function , especially by co-chaperones . We introduce a new mechanistic concept , functional stimulation through conformational confinement , which has wide-spread implications for protein function in diverse systems .
In many cells , polarity establishment is thought to occur through a positive feedback loop in which local accumulation of polarity factors triggers growth of a cluster of factors . In budding yeast cells , polarity establishment is thought to occur via positive feedback , but the mechanism of competition between clusters has been challenged . Here we report experiments that reveal that yeast cells can guarantee that they only establish a single front . We find that competition between clusters can be slowed by slowing the exchange of polarity factors between the cell interior and the membrane . Slowed competition allows cells to maintain two or more buds simultaneously . These findings reveal a mechanism by which cells can guarantee that they only establish a single front , and provide insight into the mechanism of competition between clusters .
RecA filament slides along a single-stranded DNA during homologous recombination . Here , we report a single molecule imaging scheme to characterize the encounter complex between RecA and double-stranded DNA . RecA filament slides along the DNA with a diffusion coefficient of approximately 800 bp2/s . Sliding occurs with a RecA filament that can sample hundreds of base pairs before dissociation and can accelerate homology search by as much as 200-fold . Homology recognition occurs as few as 6 nt of complementary base pairs . The RecA filament can recognize a homology site during sliding , thereby enhancing homology search by as much as 1 . 5-fold .
The M2-1 protein from human metapneumovirus ( HMPV ) is a zinc-binding transcription antiterminator that plays a critical role in transcriptional regulation . Here , we report X-ray crystallographic structures of HMPV M2-1 at resolutions ranging from 2 . 0 to 2 . 5 Å . Unlike the asymmetrical RSV M2-1 tetramer , our HMPV M2-1 structures revealed dissociation of one protomer core domain from the tetramer interface . Solution small angle X-ray scattering and atomistic coarse-grained molecular dynamics simulations demonstrated that M2-1 behaves as a dynamic , modular protein in equilibrium between open and closed forms . Crystallographic studies of M2-1 bound to nucleic acids reveal how the M2-1 zinc finger recognizes RNA , while electron microscopy showed that interaction with the gene end RNA induces the closed conformation of M2-1 , a process which is coupled with concentration-dependent aggregation in solution . Our findings provide a structural basis for the recognition of gene end signals by M2-1 , and the prevention of premature mRNA termination .
Lysosomes are the most abundant organelles in the body and are responsible for degrading cellular waste . Lysosomal chloride is a key player in this process , but its role in lysosome function remains unclear . Here , we used DNA-based fluorescent chloride reporters to quantitatively measure lysosomal chloride in Caenorhabditis elegans and mammalian cells . We show that lysosomes are highly enriched in chloride , and that chloride dysregulation correlates with lysosome dysfunction . In fact , the magnitude of chloride dysregulation is three orders of magnitude greater than the decrease in proton concentrations . Our findings suggest a new role for chloride in lysosome function and suggest that chloride dysregulation may underlie a broader range of lysosomal storage disorders .
To shift attention to an object of interest , the observer follows the gaze of the demonstrator . In monkeys , gaze following is largely determined by head orientation . We trained two rhesus monkeys to locate targets either by following head gaze or by using a learned association of face identity with the same targets . In the first experiment , we asked the monkeys to use head gaze orientation to identify the spatial target the portrayed monkey was looking at . In the second experiment , we asked the monkeys to overtly shift attention to the same target by using learned associations between portrait identities and specific target locations . In the first experiment , we identified a distinct region in the posterior superior temporal sulcus ( pSTS ) , located close to but not overlapping with the face patches , which was activated by head gaze following . In the second experiment , we found that the activation of this region was unilateral in one of the two monkeys , whereas the activation of face patches was bilateral . We propose that the gaze following patch in the pSTS may be the substrate of the geometrical calculations needed to translate head orientation into precise shifts of attention .
Recovery from early-onset, long-term monocular visual deprivation ( MD ) in adult visual cortex is slow and incomplete . Here , we find that locomotion enhances recovery in mouse visual cortex . Visual stimulation during locomotion , but not locomotion alone , increases the gain of visual responses in primary visual cortex . The recovery is preferential to the specific visual stimuli presented during locomotion . These findings suggest that recovery is promoted only by the active neural circuits that are activated during locomotion .
The leaf-cutting ants Acromyrmex and Atta farm the cultivar Leucocoprinus gongylophorus as a mutualistic herbivore-fungal symbiont . The ants produce an enzyme cocktail in their feces that is deposited on the fungal garden as a black pellet , which is then spread over the garden to promote fungal growth . We report a comprehensive proteome of the fecal fluid of Acromyrmex echinatior and show that most proteins are produced by the fungus and ingested by the ants . The proteome includes a high proportion of oxidoreductases , which are enzymes that can produce hydrogen peroxide by oxidizing aromatic alcohols . We propose that the ant-produced hydrogen peroxide is used in a Fenton reaction to break down plant cell walls . We find that the ants have evolved a mechanism to avoid the deleterious effects of hydroxyl radicals by recycling the iron required for the Fenton reaction , and that the fecal fluid contains a range of enzymes to reduce iron back to a reduced form . Our study provides insights into the molecular basis of a symbiotic partnership that surpasses human bioconversion technology in its ability to break down plant biomass .
GWL kinase promotes cell transformation and tumour growth in mice , but its role in human cancer is not well understood . Here , we show that GWL overexpression promotes cell transformation in immortalised cells and tumour growth in mice . GWL overexpression promotes cell proliferation , migration , and invasion , and induces the senescence checkpoint in primary human fibroblasts . Moreover , GWL overexpression promotes AKT phosphorylation on S473 in a PP2AB55-dependent manner . Inhibition of PP2AB55 by GWL overexpression reduces AKT phosphorylation on S473 , suggesting that GWL promotes AKT hyperactivation by decreasing its dephosphorylation . In addition , GWL overexpression promotes the degradation of PHLPP , the phosphatase responsible for AKT dephosphorylation . Finally , the ectopic overexpression of PHLPP rescues the phenotype induced by GWL overexpression in transformed cells . Altogether , these results suggest that GWL overexpression is a common feature of human cancers and that GWL phosphorylation of PHLPP promotes AKT hyperactivation and tumour growth .
Antibiotics are the mainstay of bacterial infection management . However , antibiotic treatment can also affect the host’s immune system . We analyzed the effects of the anti-tuberculosis drug bedaquiline ( BDQ ) on human macrophages . We show that BDQ induces cell reprogramming , increasing macrophage bactericidal activity . BDQ triggers phagosome-lysosome fusion , autophagy and lysosome activation . BDQ also increases nitric oxide production and enhances the activity of other anti-TB drugs . Thus , BDQ could be used as a host-directed therapy against a wide range of bacterial infections .
YAP is a key mediator of Hippo signaling and is required for controlling local epithelial cell properties required for branching morphogenesis . We utilized conditional deletion of YAP in the lung epithelium to investigate the role of YAP in lung development . We found that loss of epithelial YAP leads to cystic lung defects . Epithelial YAP was distributed throughout the lung epithelium . Loss of epithelial YAP was associated with changes in cellular properties and was associated with defective mechanical force production . Mechanical force production is a critical requirement for lung branching . Our results provide new insight into the molecular mechanisms by which YAP controls lung branching morphogenesis .
Injectisomes are nanomachines that inject effector proteins into eukaryotic host cells . They are composed of a structural core and a flexible membrane-spanning export complex . Here we report the three-dimensional structure of Yersinia enterocolitica and Shigella flexneri injectisomes in their native environment . The injectisomes were visualized by cryo electron tomography in intact bacteria . The in situ structure of Y . enterocolitica was elongated by 30–40% compared to the isolated structure , indicating that the injectisome’s basal body is highly flexible in the cellular context . The elasticity of the injectisome’s basal body was also observed in isolated YscD and YscC proteins , which showed elongation upon stretching by up to 40% . The elongation of the injectisome basal body may help bacteria to cope with distance variations in the intermembrane space and withstand mechanical stresses .
The Arabidopsis FERONIA ( FER ) receptor kinase is a multifunctional regulator for plant growth and reproduction . FER interacts with the GPI-anchored proteins LLG1 and LRE , but how these proteins enable the signaling capacity of a cell surface receptor is unknown . Here we show that LLG1 and LRE physically interact with FER in the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) and on the cell surface . FER is tethered to the cell membrane by LLG1 , which is essential for efficient localization of FER to the plasma membrane . LLG1 and LRE are required for FER to mediate multiple signaling pathways , including auxin , abscisic acid , and ROS-regulated phenotypes . Together these results elucidate a mechanism by which GPI-anchored proteins can control cell surface signaling and provide a versatile strategy for FER to execute its diverse biological roles .
Chromatin is a complex of DNA and histone proteins that compacts and regulates gene expression in eukaryotes . The fundamental unit of chromatin in eukaryotes is the nucleosome , which is composed of an octamer of histone proteins wrapped around 147 base pairs of DNA . We show that archaeal chromatin is composed of a homolog of the eukaryotic histone tetramer , and that both chromatin architecture and nucleosome occupancy are conserved between eukaryotes and archaea .
Protein restriction is a potent determinant of lifespan across taxa , but the mechanisms that regulate this effect are poorly understood . We show that serotonin signaling in the brain is required for protein preference in Drosophila and that disruption of this pathway prolongs lifespan . We find that serotonin signaling is required during the choice test to develop protein preference and that this effect is independent of feeding behavior . Furthermore , we show that a conserved amino acid transporter is required for serotonin release in response to protein feeding . Our results suggest that the macronutrient valuation process itself , in the context of perceived availability and demand , can influence the aging process independent of feeding or total nutrient intake .
Cancer is characterized by aberrant expression of oncogenes and RNA chimeras . However , the mechanisms driving such events are incompletely understood . Here , we report an unprecedented transcriptional profiling of 50 ccRCC tumor and matched normal samples from TCGA . We show that transcription read-through is prevalent in ccRCC and correlates with poorer patient survival . We identify SETD2 inactivation as a major driving force of impaired transcription termination and high levels of read-through . Moreover , we show that transcription read-through overruns and interferes with the expression of downstream genes . We identify the anti-apoptotic oncogene BCL2 as one of such interfered genes , thereby illustrating a new mechanistic basis for the transcriptional deregulation of oncogenes . In addition , our transcriptome analyses revealed recurrent RNA chimeras generated from read-through episodes in ccRCC . Our data disclose the prognostic power of transcription read-through and emphasize its role as a major source of transcriptome diversity in ccRCC .
GPIHBP1 is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored protein that binds to lipoprotein lipase ( LPL ) and is essential for intravascular lipolysis . Here we show that the LPL•GPIHBP1 interaction is complex , with both LPL’s catalytic domain and the acidic domain of GPIHBP1 contributing to the binding process . The acidic domain is intrinsically disordered and is responsible for stabilizing LPL’s catalytic activity by preventing its global unfolding . The LPL•GPIHBP1 complex is responsible for delivering triglyceride-rich lipoproteins to the capillary lumen for processing .
TraR and DksA are bacterial proteins that regulate transcription initiation by binding directly to RNA polymerase ( RNAP ) rather than to promoter DNA . The crystal structures of Escherichia coli RNAP were determined by cryo-electron microscopy ( cryo-EM ) to investigate the structural basis for TraR-mediated transcription activation and inhibition . TraR binding induces RNAP conformational changes that alter the RNAP channel and alter interactions with σ701 . 1 , a critical component of the RNAP channel . The structural analyses revealed that TraR-mediated transcription activation and inhibition involve multiple steps along the RPo formation pathway . TraR-induced conformational changes at the β-shelf and β-loop regions of RNAP allosterically weaken σ701 . 1 interactions in the main channel , allowing transcription from activated promoters . In contrast , TraR-induced conformational changes at the trigger-loop region of RNAP disrupt interactions with β’-Si3 and β’-Si1 , causing inhibition of transcription from inhibited promoters .
The focus of most research is on basic metabolic and homeostatic neurobiological substrates of feeding behavior . However , the neural circuits regulating learned aspects of feeding behavior remain poorly understood . Here we demonstrate that ventral hippocampal ghrelin-expressing neurons communicate with lateral hypothalamic orexin-expressing neurons to control conditioned appetite and feeding behavior . Further , we show that the activation of this neural pathway is critical for vHP ghrelin-mediated hyperphagia , and that this pathway is required for vHP ghrelin to mediate conditioned feeding behavior . Our findings provide novel insights into the neural substrates of feeding behavior and highlight a novel neural system regulating higher-order aspects of feeding .
Outbreaks of dengue depend on multiple factors , including human population structure , prior immunity , and climate . We analysed serological data and surveillance reports from Fiji to examine the dynamics of a major 2013/14 dengue outbreak and evaluate control measures . We found that infection risk was highest in the 10-19 year-old age group . We did not find strong evidence linking other demographic or environmental risk factors to seroconversion . The model showed that herd immunity and seasonally varying transmission could not explain the observed dynamics . An additional reduction in transmission coinciding with a vector clean-up campaign in March 2014 could explain the decline in transmission . Our analysis has implications for forecasting of future epidemics and quantitative retrospective evaluation of the effectiveness of control measures .
Trypanosomes lack glutathione reductase and thioredoxin reductase . Instead , they employ a trypanothione ( T ) /tryparedoxin ( TR ) system . The molecular basis of thiol redox homeostasis in the mitochondrion of trypanosomes is unknown . Here , we generated cell lines constitutively expressing a trypanothione-based redox biosensor in either the cytosol or mitochondrion of African trypanosomes . The parasites harbor a trypanothione-based thiol metabolism in the mitochondrion that is slightly weaker than in the cytosol . Inhibition of trypanothione biosynthesis by 2-Cys-peroxide ( DFMO ) impairs the ability of the cytosol and mitochondrion to cope with exogenous oxidants . Depletion of trypanothione reductase ( Tpx ) abolishes the cytosolic response to hydrogen peroxide ( H2O2 ) . Inhibition of Tpx depletes the mitochondrial response to H2O2 , indicating that a second oxidoreductase is required to couple the trypanothione redox couple to the mitochondrial peroxidases .
Paget's disease of bone ( PDB ) is characterized by focal increases in disorganized bone remodeling . Here we conducted a genome-wide differential DNA methylation analysis of 253 PDB patients and 280 controls . Meta-analysis of the discovery and cross-validation set identified 14 significant differentially methylated sites ( DMS ) . Meta-analysis of the discovery set identified 111 DMR that replicated in the cross-validation set . 14 of the 14 DMS were located near genes with functional relevance to the pathogenesis of PDB including bone-related functions , such as osteoclast differentiation , or functions related to environmental triggers associated with PDB such as viral infection and mechanical loading . The results of this study demonstrate that epigenetic factors , specifically DNA methylation , play a role in the development of PDB .
Drosophila hematopoiesis has been extensively studied in the embryo and the third instar larval lymph gland . However , the first instar larval lymph gland , a precursor to the adult hematopoietic system , has remained a poorly understood entity . Here , we identify the hematopoietic stem cells ( HSCs ) in the first instar larval lymph gland and show that they employ a conserved signaling pathway for their maintenance . Our findings establish a novel model of hematopoiesis in Drosophila that can be exploited to gain better insight into vertebrate AGM-related HSCs .
Alveolar formation is critical for lung function . The molecular mechanisms underlying this process are poorly understood . Here , we demonstrate that the planar cell polarity ( PCP ) pathway controls alveolar formation by regulating the actomyosin cytoskeleton and PDGF secretion from alveolar cells . Loss of PCP signaling in alveolar cells leads to defective alveolar formation in mice . We identify a Wnt5a–Ror2–Vangl2 axis that coordinates cell-cell interactions between alveolar epithelial cells and myofibroblasts . PCP signaling controls cell-cell contact formation between alveolar epithelial cells and myofibroblasts , which leads to coordinated morphogenesis and PDGF secretion from alveolar type I and type II cells . These studies provide a new mechanistic understanding of alveolar formation and extend the current model of PCP signaling in tissue patterning .
Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases ( aaRSs ) are essential for fidelity of the genetic code . These enzymes discriminate against non-cognate amino acids and protect the proteome from errors during translation . In Escherichia coli , the phenylalanine-tRNA synthetase ( PheRS ) is required to protect the proteome from the non-proteinogenic amino acid m-tyrosine . In the absence of PheRS , m-tyrosine is efficiently incorporated into proteins at tyrosine codons , and m-tyrosine-tRNAPhe is formed in vitro . In vivo , m-tyrosine accumulates in the proteome of PheRS-deficient E . coli , and growth is restricted under conditions that promote oxidative stress . We show that PheRS editing activity is essential for protecting the E . coli proteome from m-tyrosine incorporation , and that the non-proteinogenic amino acid accumulates at tyrosine codons in the absence of editing . Our findings demonstrate the threat non-proteinogenic amino acids pose to protein synthesis quality control , and highlight the importance of aaRS quality control mechanisms in maintaining cellular viability .
The extracellular matrix (ECM) is a common feature of many organs and has been implicated in many aspects of cell biology . However , the extent to which the ECM is generated by individual cells and how it is integrated with the cytoskeleton is not well understood . Here , we have examined the relationship between the apical ECM and the cytoskeleton in the tracheal epithelium of Drosophila . We show that the apical ECM is essential for the correct patterning of actin bundles , which in turn control the formation of taenidial folds , a chitin-rich apical ECM that lines the lumen of the trachea . We find that chitin deposition is required for the formation of the apical actin rings that prefigure taenidial folds . Moreover , chitin levels modulate the activity of Src42A , a kinase that is involved in actin organisation . Thus , we propose a model whereby the apical ECM feeds back on the cytoskeleton to ensure the proper formation of taenidial folds , thereby generating a continuous supracellular ECM that lines the trachea .
The study of decision-making has mainly focused on isolated decisions where choices are associated with motor actions. Here , we show that evidence for multiple decisions is integrated in parallel and that the overall strategy is formed in a hierarchical manner . We demonstrate that flat models—which predict that evidence integration for successive decisions is decoupled—are not supported by the data. Moreover , we show that there are conditions where evidence integration for successive decisions is decoupled , but this is not due to a flat model .
Humans learn to associate stimuli with reward probability , but it is unclear how this learning is achieved . Here , we show that humans form a compact neural code for reward probability by mapping novel stimuli onto a single dimension , known as the mental number line . This mapping is shared across different stimuli , such as numbers and bandits , and is reflected in the neural patterns evoked by these stimuli . This shared code enables humans to generalize and learn about reward probability more quickly .
Salmonella enters macrophages and survives in the acidic vacuole . We show that intracellular acidification activates the SsrA/B two-component system and up-regulates SPI-2 gene expression . We show that intracellular acidification increases the levels of the SsrA and SsrB regulators and enhances their binding to DNA . This increase in DNA binding is not due to changes in the global regulators PhoP and OmpR , but is a pH-dependent intrinsic property of the SsrB response regulator .
Ral proteins are downstream effectors of Ras GTPases . They are overexpressed in many human cancers , but their precise roles are largely unknown . We exploited an optogenetic approach to establish the molecular mechanisms underlying the activation of RalB in human cancer invasion . We show that RalB is instructive in promoting cell invasion in Ras-mutated HEK-HT cells , and that it is required for the invasive phenotype of Ras-mutated HEK-HT-H-RasV12 cells . Moreover , we show that RalB is recruited at the leading edge of the Wave Regulatory Complex , a key regulator of actin polymerization and protrusion formation . We propose that the Ras-RalB-exocyst-WRC pathway holds promises as novel anticancer strategy .
Actin filament dynamics play a crucial role in cellular processes . The molecular basis of actin filament turnover is the polymerization and depolymerization of actin monomers at the filament ends . Here , we report that the polymerization of actin monomers is asymmetric , and that the pointed-end has a non-elongating state . We used total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy to visualize single actin filaments and show that the pointed-end is kinetically inactive in the presence of several actin-binding proteins . We also show that the pointed-end is in a kinetically inactive state in the absence of side-binding proteins and that the observed kinetic asymmetry arises from the interaction of side-binding proteins with the filament . Our results provide evidence for the existence of a local structural alteration mechanism that modulates actin filament dynamics .
The main challenge in directly linking stochastic events at the promoter to transcript production is the experimental difficulty in establishing a direct link between stochastic events at the promoter and transcript production. Here we present a fast fluorescence in situ hybridization method ( fastFISH ) to detect single nascent transcripts at sub-second time resolution at the single-molecule level . The method relies on intrinsically unstructured nucleic acid probes with sequences composed of only three of the four bases ( A , U and C for RNA probes , and A , T , and G for DNA targets ) , which hybridize at exceptionally fast rates ( ∼107 M−1s−1 ) without compromising sequence specificity . We demonstrate that fastFISH can be used to study transcription by multi-subunit prokaryotic and eukaryotic RNA polymerases at the level of stochastic molecular interactions . The rules for generating fastFISH probe-target pairs can also be used for gene silencing , gene profiling and bottom-up assembly of nucleic acid nanostructures .
Histone K-to-M mutations are associated with multiple cancers . However , the mechanisms of these mutations are controversial . Here , we established an H3K9M model in fission yeast , which contains only three H3 genes and one H3K9 methyltransferase Clr4 . H3K9M completely abolished H3K9me3 across the genome , and trapped Clr4 at heterochromatin nucleation centers to prevent its spreading . The interaction between H3K9M and Clr4 was enhanced by S-adenosylmethionine ( SAM ) , the methyl donor for histone methyltransferases . Moreover , the structure of H3K9M in complex with an H3K9 methyltransferase G9a and SAM provided the molecular details of how methionine interacts with histone methyltransferases . Our results provide clear mechanistic insights of histone H3K9M in regulating H3K9 methylation .
Promoter-proximal pausing of RNA polymerase II ( Pol II ) is a common transcriptional mechanism in higher eukaryotes . However , the molecular mechanism of this process remains unanswered . Here , we report that the Jumonji domain-containing 6 ( JMJD6 ) protease is the cognate substrate for the 7SK snRNP complex , which sequesters the positive transcription elongation factor ( P-TEFb ) of Pol II . JMJD6 cleaves the 7SK snRNP complex member Methylphosphate capping enzyme ( MePCE ) so as to disrupt the stability of the 7SK snRNP complex . Furthermore , P-TEFb is recruited to the C-terminal domain of Pol II CTD ( Ser2-CTD ) by JMJD6 and BRD4 , which in turn mediates the phosphorylation of Ser2-CTD of Pol II . These findings reveal a novel mechanism of Pol II transcription regulation in higher eukaryotes .
During meiosis , homologous chromosomes pair , generating genetic diversity . Double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) occur at specific locations , and are repaired by recombination . PRDM9 is a transcription factor that recognises and positions DSBs , but its role in recombination has remained unclear . Here we show that PRDM9 binds to recombination hotspots , and that ZCWPW1 , a histone methylation reader , is recruited to PRDM9 binding sites in a PRDM9-dependent manner . In a zcwpw1 knockout mouse , DSB repair and synapsis are impaired , and DMC1 persists at PRDM9-bound sites , indicating that ZCWPW1 is required for DSB repair . We conclude that ZCWPW1 is the first protein directly positioned by PRDM9 , and its role is in aiding homologous chromosome pairing .
The X-chromosome is inactivated in females by the noncoding RNA Xist , which recruits chromatin silencing machinery to silence X-linked genes . Here , we show that the RNA binding protein Spen , which is essential for Xist-mediated gene silencing , binds to and represses retroviral elements in mouse embryonic stem cells . Spen binds to ERVK-derived RNA in a direct manner , and this binding leads to chromatin silencing in cis . Spen’s binding to ERVK RNAs is a structural analogue of its binding to Xist , and Spen’s recruitment of chromatin silencing machinery to retroviral RNA is sufficient to mediate Xist-like silencing in cis . These results suggest that Xist may have evolved the ability to recruit Spen via the insertion of an ERV element into the proto-Xist locus , and that lncRNAs , which are evolutionarily young , may exapt protein-protein interactions to form functional protein binding domains .
Microtubule ( MT ) dynamics play a critical role in immune cell polarization . Little is known about how MT length is regulated during T cell polarization . Here , we show that the MT-associated protein KIF21B is required for proper MT length control and that it restricts MT growth by inducing pauses and catastrophes . KIF21B knockout cells display defects in immunological synapse formation and MT length . In these cells , KIF21B can be rescued by re-expressing KIF21B-GFP , which walks to MT plus ends and induces pausing and catastrophes . These phenotypes can be rescued by a low dose of vinblastine , a MT-destabilizing drug that induces MT pauses . Our simulations demonstrate that a small number of KIF21B molecules can restrict MT length and induce an imbalance of dynein-mediated pulling forces that enables efficient centrosome translocation . Our data show that proper MT length control is crucial for efficient centrosome translocation and immune cell polarization .
Sexual interactions have a profound influence on health in many species , including mammals . Here , we show that brief sexual encounters with males shorten the lifespan of Caenorhabditis elegans hermaphrodites . We show that this effect is not due to the loss of fertility or mating efficiency , but rather to the presence of self-sperm , which protects the soma from the deleterious effects of mating with males . Self-sperm protects hermaphrodites by triggering a sperm-sensing pathway in the soma , which in turn protects the soma from the negative effect of males . The protection of self-sperm is conserved in other hermaphroditic nematodes , suggesting that the mechanism of protection may have evolved independently in these species . These findings open new avenues for understanding the effects of sexual interactions on health and may have implications for human health .
Mycobacterium tuberculosis , the causative agent of tuberculosis , is a human pathogen which survives and grows in a number of niches . However , its unique metabolism , particularly nitrogen metabolism , is poorly understood . Here , we show that M . tuberculosis can utilise all 20 proteinogenic amino acids as nitrogen sources , leading to high biomass and faster growth compared to ammonium . Nitrogen sources containing more than one nitrogen atom , such as glutamine and asparagine , are also utilised by M . tuberculosis . Our data reveal that M . tuberculosis is highly flexible and adaptable to nitrogen sources , likely a result of evolution in the human host .
Hif-3α is an oxygen-dependent transcription factor and a key regulator of embryonic growth and development . Here , we identify a novel zebrafish Hif-3α spliced variant , Hif-3α2 , which is oxygen-insensitive and has HRE-dependent transcriptional activity . Overexpression of Hif-3α2 causes left-right asymmetry defects , while its deletion increases Wnt/β-catenin signaling . We find that Hif-3α2 binds to β-catenin and destabilizes the nuclear β-catenin complex , which is distinct from GSK3β-mediated β-catenin degradation and is conserved in human cells . Our results suggest that Hif-3α2 plays an oxygen-independent role in regulating Wnt/β-catenin signaling in embryonic development .
Stem cells and their associated supportive niches are centrally important to development , homeostatic tissue maintenance , aging , regeneration , and tissue engineering . Balance must be struck between retaining a sufficient pool of stem cells in the niche and generating a robust population of stem cell daughters that leave the niche to differentiate . How stem cell progeny exit the niche is poorly understood , but is thought to be stochastic . We have discovered that the somatic gonad sheath cell Sh1 extends distally and in contact with germ cells in the progenitor zone of the C . elegans germ line . Sh1 cells grow over germ cells during germ cell divisions at the Sh1-DTC interface , which segregates stem cells from their progeny . When Sh1 is mispositioned by RNAi , progeny are reduced , and germ cell proliferation is dramatically reduced . Our findings suggest that a previously unappreciated somatic cell type is involved in regulating stem cell niche dynamics .
The function of biological macromolecules in crowded cellular environments remains poorly understood . Here , we show that crowded environments cause a variety of effects on the structure and dynamics of biological macromolecules that have not been observed in vitro . We find that proteins and nucleic acids are destabilized in crowded environments and that metabolites bind more tightly to macromolecules . These effects are not captured by current models of in vitro biology and have significant implications for the in vivo functioning of biological macromolecules .
The influenza virus penetrates cells by the fusion of viral and endosomal membranes . The viral hemagglutin (HA) mediates this process by undergoing a large-scale conformational change . The HA structures in both pre- and post-fusion states define the fusion endpoints , but not the intermediate states . We report here a series of experiments that probe the relationship between HA structural properties and kinetic intermediates in the fusion pathway . We find that irreversible engagement of fusion peptides from 3–4 neighboring HA trimers within a much larger virus-target-membrane interface leads to subsequent rearrangements that rapidly and cooperatively induce membrane merger . Release of the fusion peptide from its pocket is rate-limiting for membrane engagement . A long-lived membrane-inserted extended intermediate is a fundamental aspect of the fusion mechanism .
We report a systematic approach to generate a comprehensive description of cortical networks by characterizing functional connectivity and short-term synaptic dynamics in the adult mouse and human cortex . We observed sparse recurrent connections among excitatory neurons in all layers of adult mouse and human cortex , consistent with previous studies . We supplemented mouse experiments with high-throughput two-photon optogenetic stimulation to sample connectivity at greater distances than is generally feasible using the multipatch approach . Most excitatory recurrent connections in mouse cortex depressed after eight action potentials across a range of frequencies . Estimates of connectivity derived from multipatch experiments in brain slices should be considered as a lower bound on the underlying population connectivity due to sensitivity to false negatives from several sources .
Aggression and courtship are two closely related social behaviors . How these behaviors are controlled by neurons is poorly understood , and whether they are linked to the same neural circuits is unknown . Here , we used a large-scale screen to identify aggression-promoting neurons in Drosophila . The screen identified three independent hits that controlled both aggression and courtship behavior , indicating that the two behaviors are linked . We found that P1 neurons , which were previously thought to be specific to courtship , also promoted aggression . Moreover , we discovered that P1 neurons could be activated to promote aggression even below the threshold required for wing extension . This persistent aggression could be triggered by a single episode of P1 neuron activation , and could endure for at least 10 min in solitary flies . Our findings demonstrate that P1 neurons play a key role in aggression , and that this behavior is linked to the control of courtship .
Recombination events are essential for generating genetic variation and shaping populations . However , the frequency of gene conversions , which are the consequence of recombination events , is largely unknown in plants . Here , we sequenced 200 recombination events in 106 Arabidopsis thaliana offspring and show that gene conversions are frequent . We also demonstrate that gene conversions are preferentially targeted to nucleosome-free , un-methylated promoter regions .
Fatigue due to physical exertion is a common occurrence in everyday life and is particularly prevalent in a range of neurological diseases . While fatigue can impair task execution , its effects on learning are unclear . Here , we investigate the effect of muscle fatigue on the acquisition of motor skills . We find that muscle fatigue impairs motor-skill learning beyond its effects on task execution . This detrimental effect is at least partly mediated by motor cortex mechanisms . Our findings are significant to professions that rely on intensive physical training to achieve optimal performance .
DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) are a hallmark of cancer cells , which often have defects in DNA repair pathways . Poly (ADP ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors are a class of DNA repair inhibitors that target DSB repair pathways . In particular , PARP inhibitors target a repair pathway that relies on the exonuclease Exo1 to resect DSB ends . However , the mechanisms by which PARP inhibitors are effective against cancer cells with defects in DSB repair are poorly understood . Here , we use a live-cell assay to quantitatively measure DSB end resection in S . pombe , a genetic model for DSB repair . We find that loss of Rev7 and 53BP1 , two inhibitors of Exo1-dependent resection , derepresses the RecQ helicase-dependent pathway , leading to very fast resection rates ( >20 kb/hr ) . Moreover , loss of Rev7 is able to rescue the growth defect of exo1Δ cells on media containing camptothecin , suggesting that loss of Rev7 is sufficient to derepress the RecQ helicase-dependent resection pathway . Our results provide new insights into the role of Rev7 and 53BP1 in DSB repair and suggest a new mechanism by which PARP inhibitors can overcome resistance in cancer cells .
Embryogenesis is a complex process that is often stereotyped and controlled in model organisms . We examined cryptic genetic variation in the natural populations of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans by inducing gene knockdowns and using quantitative genetic methods . We found that wild-type populations harbor many genetic modifiers of embryonic lethality , including gene-specific and extragenic modifiers . These modifiers act on embryonic development and are pervasive in natural populations , demonstrating that complex trait architecture involves conditional functionality .
The clonal population of the Gram-positive bacterium Bacillus subtilis can switch between two metabolic states that produce acetate and acetoin , respectively . Here , we show that individual cells can exist in these two metabolic states , and that they can switch between them in a state-switching process that is dynamic and environmentally-sensitive . We show that this state-switching is regulated by the competence system , which is controlled by the master regulator comK . We also show that cells can switch between states in response to acetate accumulation , and that this switch is accompanied by altered growth rates . These findings provide a new perspective on metabolic specialization within a clonal bacterial population , and highlight the importance of cell-cell communication and state-switching in shaping the metabolism of a population .
Replication fork blockage at the replication terminator sequence RTS1 in fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe is sufficient to induce homologous recombination-dependent repair (RDR) . However , the risk of failing to complete replication prior to mitosis is sufficient to initiate RDR , which is a default response to fork blockage . We have used time-lapse microscopy to study the initiation of RDR in fission yeast , and find that Rad52 is recruited to RTS1 within ∼7–12 . 4 min of fork blockage and the recombination response persists for more than 60 min . Unlike homologous recombination ( HR ) induced by DNA damage , RDR is not error-prone , and we find that it is prone to multiple rounds of recombination . RDR can also cause fork collapse and dissociation , which may result in over-replication . We find that fork convergence does not induce HR , and that RDR is not required for cell viability .
The mechanism of gene conversion in meiosis remains poorly understood . In mammals , gene conversion is thought to be a major force in shaping the distribution of genetic variation over evolutionary time . We performed the first genome-wide study of non-crossover ( NCO ) gene conversion in humans using SNP array data from 34 three-generation Mexican American pedigrees . We identified 103 NCO events , of which 50 are confirmed by sequence data . We estimate the rate of NCO per bp to be 5 . 9 × 10−6/generation , which is roughly 17 , 110 ( 95% CI 13 , 340–21 , 460 ) sites affected by NCO in each generation . NCO events are preferentially transmitted in heterozygous form , with a GC bias of 68% . We further observed complex NCO resolutions , with discontinuous tracts within short intervals of less than 30 kb . We also observed multiple NCO events in the same meiosis , with some tracts spanning more than 1 kb , and clusters of NCOs within 20–30 kb . Our results provide a new perspective on the role of gene conversion in mammalian evolution .
The DNA repair pathway that repairs double-strand breaks in higher eukaryotes is classical non-homologous end joining ( c-NHEJ ) . XRCC4 and XLF are key c-NHEJ proteins that cooperate in DNA repair . XRCC4 and XLF form filamentous structures that bridge DNA and promote ligation . Here we show that phosphorylation of the disordered C-terminal tails of XRCC4 and XLF by DNA-PKcs and/or ATM alters the stability and DNA bridging activity of XRCC4/XLF complexes . Disrupting these phosphorylation sites by phospho-mimicking or phospho-blocking mutations abates XRCC4/XLF filament formation and DNA bridging in vitro . Moreover , phospho-mimicking mutants of XRCC4 and XLF are defective in DNA bridging and promote cell death after exposure to radiomimetic drugs . Disrupting phosphorylation of the C-terminal tails of XRCC4 and XLF also abates chromosomal DNA repair . Our findings suggest that phosphorylation of the C-terminal tails of XRCC4 and XLF is important for the stability and function of XRCC4/XLF complexes in DNA repair and that XRCC4 and XLF filaments are not simply passive filaments but instead actively promote DNA repair .
The p21 protein ( also known as p21Cip1/Waf1 ) is a key CDK inhibitor . Although p21 levels are low in S phase , it is still required for the cell cycle progression . Here , we show that endogenous p21 fine-tunes the dynamics of DNA replication by regulating the loading of Pol κ at replication forks . Depletion of p21 causes replication stress and genomic instability in cycling cells . Such defects are prevented by depletion of Pol κ , but not by depletion of the alternative DNA polymerase η . Interestingly , the p21/PCNA interaction is required to prevent the accumulation of DNA replication stress markers , chromatin breaks and micronuclei . Our findings highlight a novel antioncogenic function of p21 in the regulation of DNA replication .
Mutations in hPINK1 cause autosomal recessive early-onset Parkinson’s disease (PD) . hPINK1 is a kinase that phosphorylates the ubiquitin E3 ligase Parkin , promoting mitophagy . However , the molecular mechanisms of hPINK1 activity and substrate recognition are poorly understood . Here , we report the crystal structure of a catalytically active fragment of Tribolium castaneum ( TcPINK1 ) , a hPINK1 orthologue that lacks the first kinase domain insertion . We show that the third insertion in TcPINK1 contributes to formation of a bowl-shaped binding site for ubiquitin that is critical for either TcPINK1 or hPINK1 mediated ubiquitin and Parkin Ubl phosphorylation . Furthermore , we have elaborated an important regulatory role for TcPINK1 autophosphorylation of Ser205 , which together with the third insertion , aids in physiological substrate recognition . Overall , these findings provide molecular insights into the mechanisms of hPINK1 kinase activity , ubiquitin substrate recognition , and define the molecular basis of PD-linked mutations .
Dengue fever is a severe viral hemorrhagic fever that afflicts over 2.5 billion people annually . Although the pathogenesis of this disease is not understood , it is known that severe cases are associated with increased vascular permeability and pathological plasma leakage . Here , we report that mast cells , which are highly vascular , are activated during Dengue virus ( DENV ) infection and that mast cell activation is associated with vascular leakage in experimental and human DENV models . We also show that mast cell activation is associated with increased levels of a mast cell-specific product , chymase , in the blood of human patients . The ability to target mast cells and their products with drugs may provide a new approach to preventing DENV pathology .
Alexander disease ( AxD ) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder caused by mutations in glial fibrillary acidic protein ( GFAP ) . The mechanisms underlying GFAP missense mutations in AxD are not well understood . Here , we identify a novel post-translational modification ( PTM ) signature that is associated with defective GFAP proteostasis in the most aggressive form of AxD . We show that phosphorylation of GFAP Ser-13 is selectively elevated in the brain tissues of patients who died very young , and that this phosphorylation is associated with perinuclear GFAP aggregates that resemble hallmark Rosenthal fibers in vivo . In addition , we find that the caspase-6 protease is selectively upregulated in the brain tissues of patients with the most aggressive form of AxD , and that this is correlated with GFAP cleavage and nuclear invaginations . Our study reveals a novel PTM signature that is associated with defective GFAP proteostasis in the most aggressive form of AxD .
Acoustic surveillance is an attractive tool for mosquito surveillance due to its low cost , high sensitivity , and non-invasive nature . However , acoustic data collection requires specialized hardware . We demonstrate that mobile phones are a powerful tool for acoustic mosquito surveillance , by recording wingbeat sounds from a variety of mosquito vector species , and show that acoustic data can be used to map mosquito species distributions worldwide . We show that mobile phones with basic functionality can be used to collect high-quality acoustic data on species-specific mosquito wingbeats . Our proof-of-concept field demonstrations show that acoustic surveillance using mobile phones can be used to map local mosquito populations . We also show that the existing mobile network infrastructure provides a highly scalable platform for mosquito surveillance , enabling data acquisition in resource-constrained areas . We propose a citizen science effort for mapping mosquito populations , by leveraging mobile phones to collect and map mosquito sound recordings . This approach has the potential to enhance our capability to dynamically assess mosquito populations , study their connections to human and environmental factors , and develop highly localized strategies for pre-emptive mosquito control .
Immunodominance is a fundamental property of T cell responses . A self-peptide positively selecting a single TCR may influence the specificity of a post-selection T cell repertoire . Here we demonstrate that the single gp250 self-peptide positively selecting AND TCR expands the MCC-specific CD4+ T cell repertoire . The post-selection T cells showed increased Vα11+Vβ3+ TCR pairs and conserved CDR3 features , including the specific amino acid usages at CDR3 α91 and β97 . Our data suggest that positive selection may favor the selection of TCR pairs and CDR3 features that are specific for a specific antigen , and thus shape T cell response to a specific antigen .
The primary somatosensory cortex ( S1 ) is responsible for processing sensory information related to touch and proprioception . Here we show that the digit maps of the missing hand are preserved in the S1 of two amputees , even decades after arm amputation . Using phantom sensations and ultra high-field neuroimaging , we show that the digit maps of the missing hand persist in the S1 , despite the absence of peripheral input . These findings call for a reassessment of the role of sensory input in organising the sensory cortex .
Tissue and cell-type-specific regulatory splicing factors are essential for normal cellular function, patterning, and development . However , the extent to which these factors are required in vivo remains unclear . Here we generated mice with conditional and/or germline ablation of the epithelial splicing regulatory proteins Esrps 1 and 2 ( Esrps ) . The loss of both Esrps in mice resulted in defects in craniofacial development , skin and hair follicle formation , and a phenotype that closely resembled the human cleft lip and palate disorder . The Esrps are essential for maintaining an epithelial splicing program in vivo , which is necessary for proper tissue patterning and development .
Lipocalin-2 ( LCN2 ) is a satiety factor in mice . We examined the translational and therapeutic potential of LCN2 in humans and non-human primates . We found that LCN2 crosses the blood-brain barrier and localizes to the hypothalamus . Daily treatment of lean monkeys with recombinant human LCN2 decreased food intake by 21% without overt side effects . In humans , serum LCN2 increases postprandially in lean individuals and the rise in LCN2 correlates with a drop in hunger sensation . Postprandial LCN2 response is blunted in individuals with obesity . These studies demonstrate that LCN2 is a satiety factor in humans and that the failure to stimulate postprandial LCN2 in individuals with obesity may contribute to metabolic dysregulation .
The neural code for wall-tracking is not well understood . Here , we used head-fixed mice in a tactile virtual reality to investigate the role of the barrel cortex in wall-tracking . Neural activity in the barrel cortex was necessary for guiding locomotion based on whisker cues . In addition , graded activation of layer 4 neurons in the barrel cortex was sufficient to guide locomotion in an illusory corridor . Remarkably , similar to closed-loop wall tracking , no training was required for mice to run in an illusory corridor . Neuronal tuning curves to wall distance were monotonic and multimodal . These findings reveal a rich representation of object location in the barrel cortex and suggest that neural activity in the barrel cortex drives wall-tracking .
The purpose of antigen-based immunotherapy is to silence antigen-experienced effector T cells driving ongoing immune pathology . Peptide immunotherapy ( PIT ) is the subject of clinical trials in autoimmune and allergic disease . Here we show that PIT is dependent upon sustained expression of the co-inhibitory molecule PD-1 by the pathogenic T cells . PIT results in the loss of PD-1 expression and the demethylation of the Pdcd1 promoter , which correlates with the presence of TET proteins . This demethylation requires the co-incident expression of permissive histone modifications and TET availability . The tolerizing effect of PIT is evident in tolerogenic Teff cells that are unresponsive to subsequent recall stimulation , but not in pathogenic Tg4 Teff cells .
The main focus of foragers in the core zone of domestication in southwestern Asia is on wild cereals. Evidence for the use of wild grass grains has been documented sporadically elsewhere, but the earliest dates are from the Early Mesolithic. We analyze dental calculus and ground stone tools (GSTs) from Mesolithic and Early Neolithic individuals in the Danube Gorges of the central Balkans. We find that Aegilops species , belonging to the Triticeae tribe , were consumed since the beginning of the Holocene . The evidence from GSTs shows traces of a developed grass grain processing technology. The adoption of domesticated plants occurred in the studied region after approximately 6500 cal BC , suggesting that the existing familiarity with wild cereals might have facilitated the adoption of domesticated plants in the region.
Genetic mutation , chromosomal rearrangement , and copy number amplification are the most common mechanisms responsible for generating gain-of-function alterations in human cancer . Here , we report that premature cleavage and polyadenylation ( pPA ) of a gene can also generate a truncated protein product that encodes an oncogenic, gain-of-function protein . In human breast cancer , a prematurely polyadenylated MAGI3 gene product ( MAGI3pPA ) is recurrently expressed and contributes to malignant transformation . In addition , the truncated MAGI3 product interferes with the negative regulation of the YAP oncoprotein by full-length MAGI3 , thereby contributing to the malignant transformation of human mammary epithelial cells . These results identify pPA as a novel mechanism of alteration contributing to cancer and suggest that MAGI3 truncations may be more frequently altered in cancer than previously appreciated .
Zebrafish larvae show characteristic prey capture behavior in response to small moving objects . However , the neural mechanism behind this behavior is largely unknown . We used a head-fixed behavioral assay and machine learning algorithms to quantify prey capture behavior in response to small moving stimuli . We identified a retinal ganglion cell type that responds specifically to small visual stimuli , and showed that these neurons project to a small pretectal area in the retina known as AF7 . We also identified two types of neurons in the optic tectum that project to AF7 , and that one of these neurons has processes in the non-retinorecipient neuropil next to AF7 . Finally , we used laser ablation to show that AF7 neurons are required for prey capture behavior . These results demonstrate that a dedicated retinal output is necessary for prey detection , and point to a series of parallel and interconnected pathways between multiple areas involved in this elementary form of object recognition .
Social insects are useful models for understanding the evolution and consequences of metabolic division of labor at other scales . We analyzed the trophallactic fluid of the carpenter ant Camponotus floridanus at different scales . Our results show that trophallactic fluid proteomes are filled with biomarkers reflecting biotic and abiotic conditions at both the colony and individual scale . We find that trophallactic fluid transmits many enzymes involved in metabolism and protein products of metabolism . Many are core trophallactic fluid proteins present in all samples , but many also differ significantly among the colony and individual life stages . Some proteins abundant in mature colonies are major insect nutrient storage proteins that may be required to consolidate resources into large workers and sexuals , potentially acting as superorganismal hormones . Proteins abundant in foragers and young colonies are well-conserved enzymes for fast sugar processing . We show that trophallactic fluid transmits numerous factors linked to ageing and coping with oxidative stress , including two of the three most well-known antioxidant enzymes: superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase .
X-ray diffraction data of proteins are commonly analysed by fitting single-structure models derived from the diffraction data to the experimental electron-density map . However , single-structure models do not adequately account for the inherent, functionally important dynamics of protein molecules . Here , we describe an ensemble-refinement method that accounts for the large-scale disorder and anharmonic fluctuations of protein molecules . Using 20 protein datasets with resolutions ranging from 1 . 1 to 3 . 1 Å , we show that ensemble refinement improves the Rfree by up to 4 . 9% compared with single-structure refinement . Analysis of the ensembles reveals atomic fluctuations that may be mechanistically relevant for the biological function of the molecules . In particular , ensembles indicate that some proteins exhibit a “molten core” that likely supports functionally important dynamics in ligand binding , enzyme activity , and protomer assembly . Furthermore , ensemble refinement of HIV protease reveals a mechanism of entropy compensation where specific core residues disorder to order the catalytic residues upon ligand binding . Our ensemble refinement method provides a more comprehensive understanding of the structure–dynamics relationships of biomolecules .
Holoprosencephaly (HPE) is a common birth defect characterized by abnormal patterning of the forebrain and/or midface . Mutations in the Nodal and Hedgehog (HH) signaling pathways are associated with HPE , but the role of co-receptors in this process is unknown . Here , we show that CDON , a multifunctional co-receptor for HH , regulates Nodal signaling in mice . CDON mutation synergizes with in utero ethanol exposure to induce HPE in mice . Ethanol exposure during gastrulation inhibits Nodal signaling in embryos , and CDON;Tdgf1;Lefty2 double mutants display phenotypes resembling Nodal pathway hypomorphs . These results illuminate gene-environment interactions in HPE and provide a framework for understanding the causation of other developmental anomalies .
Water balance is regulated by both feedforward and presystemic mechanisms . While feedforward regulation is well characterized , presystemic regulation is poorly understood . Here , we demonstrate that presystemic regulation of vasopressin ( AVP ) release is bidirectional and asymmetric . Water-predicting cues and drinking inhibit and eating activate magnocellular AVP neurons , respectively . The main presystemic pathway mediating water-related presystemic regulation is the lateral preoptic nucleus ( LT ) , which provides direct synaptic input to AVP neurons . A second presystemic pathway , the arcuate nucleus ( ARC ) , mediates food-related presystemic regulation . Identification of the ARC and its input to AVP neurons will help elucidate the neural basis of differential regulation of AVP release by diverse behavioral and physiological stimuli .
Here we describe the first unequivocal evidence of crawling locomotion in the human ichnological record through the analysis of anatomical traces in a cave explored 14 thousand years ago. The cave was explored by a heterogeneous group of five individuals , including a three-year-old child , two adults , a pre-adolescent and two children . The footprints were found in the innermost chamber of the cave and the morphological group analysis of the traces enabled reconstruction of the individuals’ posture and locomotion . The anatomical details recognized in the traces indicate that the lower limbs of the individuals were not covered with clothing . Our study shows that even very young children , as young as three years old , were active members , participating in apparently dangerous and social activities .
Animals use past experience to predict future events . Associative learning allows animals to use past experience to predict future events . This work describes a new assay for associative learning in larval Drosophila , capable of tracking the changing preferences of individual larvae . We show that larvae can learn to associate carbon dioxide ( CO2 ) with optogenetic activation of reward neurons . Larvae form a switch-like memory , with all-or-none and quantized states . Further , we show that repeated presentation of CO2 without reward can extinguate the memory , and that training can re-establish it . Finally , we show that the memory formation is protein-synthesis dependent and independent of protein synthesis .
Echolocating bats have excellent spatial memory and use bio-sonar to navigate to salient locations. However , it is unknown how bats recognize places using echolocation. Here we propose that bats recognize places by remembering their echo signature rather than their 3D layout . We assess the viability of this hypothesis by testing two critical properties of the echo signatures: classification uniqueness and spatial variation. The results support the proposed echo signatures and we discuss how they could support the acquisition of a cognitive map.
The Sec machinery is the main pathway for protein secretion in all forms of life . Proteins are translocated through the SecY channel by SecA , which hydrolyzes ATP to drive translocation . The mechanism of translocation is unknown . Here , we use all-atom molecular dynamics simulations , single molecule FRET and biochemical assays to investigate the interactions between SecA and SecY . We find that the SecY channel is predominantly open with ATP bound to SecA , but closed with ADP bound . We propose that the SecY channel is regulated by the ATPase cycle of SecA , with the aperture of the channel influencing the exchange of nucleotides in SecA . The closed channel provides a selective barrier against larger substrates .
Sexual differentiation in the nervous system of Caenorhabditis elegans males is poorly understood . Here we show that the heterochronic pathway genes lin-28 , let-7 and lin-41 control the timing of sexual differentiation in the nervous system . We identified a male-specific isoform of the Zn finger transcription factor ZNF362/ZNF384 as a target of the lin-29a isoform of the lin-41 translational regulator . The male-specific expression of lin-29a in a sex-shared neuron class is temporally controlled by the heterochronic pathway and is required for the acquisition of male-specific features in the nervous system . We also show that lin-29a is required for the acquisition of sexually dimorphic locomotor and postural features in adult males . Our findings provide insight into the molecular mechanisms that control the timing of sexual differentiation in the nervous system .
The emergence of sexual reproduction in eukaryotes is attributed to the evolution of a dedicated germline that guards the heritable genome . We identify an antigen expressed in germ cells in the mouse , which is recognized by two antibodies that are generated independently by investigators studying the germline in mice . This antigen is GCNA , a member of the GCNA family of intrinsically disordered proteins that are present across eukaryota . We find that GCNA is expressed in cells carrying a heritable genome – in single cells during meiosis , in stem cells that give rise to germ cells , and in germ cells themselves . We suggest that GCNA may be an ancient protein that has been specialized for cells carrying a heritable genome .
Cyclic steroid hormone-mediated signals orchestrate the development of uterine endometrial receptivity for implantation . It is unknown if these signals are necessary for oviduct function in supporting fertilization and preimplantation embryo development . Here , we show that the absence of estrogen receptor α ( ERα ) in the oviduct epithelial cells of mice leads to impaired fertilization and premature embryo death . To determine the cause of this phenotype , we examined the oviduct microenvironment and found increased secretion of proteases and protease inhibitors and decreased secretion of antimicrobial peptides . Treatment of embryos with protease inhibitors rescued embryo development , suggesting that elevated protease activity in the cKO oviduct is responsible for embryo death . Our findings indicate that the preovulatory increase in estrogen levels not only serves to stimulate ovarian follicle development and uterine endometrial growth , but also has an essential and previously unrecognized function in regulating oviduct physiology .
FOXL2 is a key transcriptional regulator of the differentiation and maintenance of granulosa cells , those supporting oocyte maturation and growth during folliculogenesis ( Schmidt et al . , 2004; Uhlenhaut et al . , 2009 ) . The role of FOXL2 in the ovary is not fully characterized . Here , we show that FOXL2 is required for normal expression of the estrogen receptor Esr2 . FOXL2 represses Sox9 expression , and this repression is mainly independent of estrogens . FOXL2 establishes a coherent feed-forward loop that includes the production of estrogens and their receptivity . FOXL2 is therefore required for the maintenance of granulosa cell identity through an indirect repression of SOX9 , which is mediated by the regulation of ESR2 expression .
Pheromones are sensory cues that induce innate behaviors . In mammals , the vomeronasal organ ( VNO ) is the primary sensory organ for pheromone detection . We have identified the receptors that respond to female pheromone cues in male mice . These receptors are members of the V1rj clade , which is homologous to the V1re clade of receptors that recognize estrus signals . These findings suggest that the vomeronasal system may harness two opposing logical mechanisms to fulfill divergent duties in pheromone signal processing: detecting cues with high sensitivity while preventing non-specific induction of behaviors by false signals .
Transcription factors (TFs) can bind to a population of sequences closely related to a single optimal site , but it is not clear how many different sequences can be bound by a single TF . Here , we present structural and thermodynamic analyses of two human TFs , HOXB13 and CDX2 , that can bind to two distinct DNA sequences with high affinity . The binding to both sites is driven by an optimal enthalpy contribution , but the binding to one site is also driven by a small loss of entropy . These results explain the mechanism behind the phenomenon of multiple specificity of TF binding to two different DNA sequences .
Flagella are essential for bacterial motility and pathogenesis . The flagellum is composed of flagellin , anchored to the bacterial membrane by a hook , and a filamentous cap protein , the flagellar capping protein ( FliD ) . Here we report the 2 . 2 Å resolution crystal structure of Pseudomonas FliD , the first flagellar capping protein to be structurally characterized . Our structure reveals a hexameric oligomeric state that is unique among flagellar proteins , and shows that the head region of FliD is structurally similar to flagellar proteins from diverse bacteria . We also show that the flagellar capping protein of Salmonella , which forms pentamers , is not functional in Pseudomonas bacteria , suggesting that flagellar filaments assembled by different flagellar capping proteins have different numbers of protofilaments .
