Answer: The CPM is used for simulating biological processes at tissue scale. Question: What is the advantage of CPMs in terms of accessibility? Answer: CPMs are inherently graphical, making them accessible in theory. Question: How are CPM simulations typically implemented? Answer: They are mostly implemented in specialised frameworks that users need to master before running simulations. Question: What is Artistoo? Answer: Artistoo is a JavaScript library for building 'explorable' CPM simulations. Question: What is the benefit of using Artistoo for CPM simulations? Answer: Artistoo allows viewers to change parameters interactively and explore their effects in real time. Question: Where do the simulations run when using Artistoo? Answer: Simulations run directly in the web browser. Question: What are the requirements for running simulations with Artistoo? Answer: No third-party software, plugins, or back-end servers are required. Question: How does the performance of Artistoo compare to C++ frameworks? Answer: The JavaScript implementation of Artistoo imposes no major performance loss compared to frameworks written in C++. It remains sufficiently fast for interactive, real-time simulations. Question: What is the advantage of using Artistoo for sharing interactive simulations? Answer: Interactive simulations can be shared via a URL in a zero-install setting. Question: What are some possible applications of Artistoo in various fields? Answer: Some applications include CPM research, science dissemination, open science, and education.
Renal macrophages have mixed developmental origins from both the yolk-sac and hematopoietic stem cells. We show here that yolk-sac-derived macrophages progressively expand in number with age , becoming a major contributor to the renal macrophage population in older mice . These findings have implications for the understanding of the changes in renal macrophage populations in normal, uninjured kidneys over time and may contribute to distinct immune responses in the kidney and limit the reparative capacity of the kidneys .
Meningeal lymphatic vessels are found in rodents but their existence in primates has been controversial . Here we show that meningeal lymphatic vessels are present in both human and nonhuman primates . High-resolution MRI with gadobutrol , a gadolinium-based contrast agent with high extravasation propensity , enabled noninvasive visualization of meningeal lymphatic vessels in both humans and primates . The meningeal lymphatic vessels recapitulate the meningeal lymphatic system observed in rodents , running alongside dural venous sinuses . This discovery has the potential to provide a better understanding of the normal physiology of lymphatic drainage from the central nervous system and could reveal aberrations in neurological diseases .
Branching morphogenesis is integral in establishing the collecting ducts of the adult organ and driving organ expansion through interactions with nephron progenitor cells. Recent research suggests that termination of tip branching occurs through stochastic exhaustion in response to nephron formation. Here we examine the relationship between nephron formation and the branching program of the kidney and find that nephrogenesis has little to no impact on the progress of branching morphogenesis or the behavior of tip or cap cell niches.
Double membrane formation is a hallmark of autophagy , yet the molecular mechanism to specify the fate of newly formed organelles is unknown . Here we show that the endosomal Rab7-homolog Mon1-Ccz1 GEF recruits itself to the pre-autophagosomal structure upon starvation , and recruits and activates the Rab7-homolog Ypt7 on autophagosomes . Atg8 is the primary determinant for Mon1-Ccz1 localization to autophagosomes . Our data thus reveal how GEF targeting can specify the fate of a newly formed organelle and provide new insights into the regulation of autophagosome-lysosome fusion .
The eukaryotic nucleosome is a fundamental unit of chromatin, composed of eight histone proteins. It plays essential roles in DNA compaction, replication, and gene expression. The presence of histones and chromatin in archaea challenges previous beliefs, suggesting that these components evolved before the divergence of Archaea and Eukarya. Here we demonstrate that archaeal chromatin is organized in a manner similar to eukaryotic chromatin and that the architecture of chromatin is conserved across eukaryotes and archaea.
The study of decision-making primarily focused on isolated decisions associated with motor actions. However , problem-solving often involves considering a hierarchy of sub-decisions. Lorteije et al . reported behavioral and neuronal evidence for hierarchical decision-making in a study with a small decision tree. Evidence integration occurred in a parallel manner during a first phase for multiple sub-decisions, followed by the formation of an overall strategy. Flat models with a single accumulator per motor action predict that L1 difficulty should affect L2 accuracy . The data ruled out this prediction , and a reanalysis of the data does not support the critical predictions of flat models. Other related tasks were examined to determine the time-course of decision-making . There are conditions where evidence integration for successive decisions is decoupled , excluding flat models. The authors concluded that the strategies involved in decision-making are genuinely hierarchical .
The exploration of a deep cave by an Upper Paleolithic group 14,000 years ago provides evidence of the first unequivocal traces of crawling locomotion in the human ichnological record.
Fatigue is a common phenomenon in everyday life and particularly common in a range of neurological diseases. However , the influence of fatigue on learning new skills remains unclear . Here , we show that muscle fatigue impairs motor-skill learning beyond its effects on task execution . These findings have important implications for training and rehabilitation regimens and may lead to changes in the way athletes , musicians , and perform rehabilitation exercises even beyond a point of fatigue .
Cortical recycling refers to the phenomenon where numerosity processing takes over circuits originally processing space. We report a new phenomenon where visual motion direction adapts numerosity, giving rise to a repulsive aftereffect. The observed phenomenon is a repulsive aftereffect where motion to the left adapts small numbers, leading to overestimation of numerosity, and motion to the right adapts large numbers, resulting in underestimation. The reference frame of the observed effect is spatiotopic. This tuning profile and reference frame suggest that motion direction-numerosity cross-adaptation may occur in a homolog of area LIP. 'Cortical recycling' expands but does not obliterate the functions originally performed by the recycled circuits. This phenomenon may allow for shared computations across domains.
PDB is characterized by focal increases in disorganized bone remodeling . To gain insights into the epigenetic factors contributing to the pathogenesis of PDB , we performed genome-wide DNA methylation profiling of a cohort of 253 PDB patients and 280 controls . Meta-analysis of differentially methylated sites (DMS) revealed 14 genome-wide significant DMS out of a total of 429 DMS (false discovery rate < 0 . 05) . Functional analysis through expression quantitative trait-methylation (eQTM) analysis identified 14 loci associated with functions related to osteoclast differentiation , mechanical loading , immune function , and viral infection . The identified DNA methylation markers could potentially be used for diagnosis or prediction of PDB .
Echolocating bats use bio-sonar (echolocation) for navigation. However , it is currently unknown how bats recognize places using echolocation. Here , we propose that template-based place recognition might underlie sonar-based navigation in bats . Using ensonification data , we assess the viability of the proposed echo signatures. We find that the two critical properties assessed are satisfied . We conclude that the proposed echo signatures satisfy both criteria .
Phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase-related kinases (PIKKs) are large Ser/Thr-protein kinases that play a central role in regulating various cellular processes . One of the most well-studied PIKKs is the mammalian SMG1 , which phosphorylates the nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD) factor UPF1 in the cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells . Here , we report the first cryo-electron microscopy structure of a PIKK with a substrate-bound active site . The structure reveals a conserved architecture of the kinase active site and provides a molecular basis for the specific recognition of phosphorylation sites by SMG1 and other PIKKs . The structure elucidates the molecular basis for the recognition of phosphorylation sites by SMG1 and potentially other PIKKs .
The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is the master regulator of cellular metabolism and growth . Dysregulation of mTOR contributes to cancer and neurological disease . The architecture of mTORC1 has recently been resolved . Here we report the architecture of mTORC2 at intermediate resolution . The two distinct multiprotein complexes of mTOR are formed by the core components mTOR , mLST8 , Rictor , SIN1 , and Protor-1 . The structure of mTORC2 provides insight into the mechanism of dysregulation of mTOR in cancer and neurological disease .
Poly (ADP ribose) polymerase inhibitors (PARPi) target DNA repair pathways . In particular , PARPi target homology-directed repair of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) . Loss of BRCA1 and p53 , two proteins involved in DNA repair , leads to PARPi resistance . Here , we show that the exonuclease Exo1 and the RecQ helicase-Dna2 pathway are the two machineries that can catalyze long-range resection at the 5’ ends of a DSB . We develop a microscopy-based assay to interrogate the distinct phases and machineries of resection simultaneously in living cells . This assay allows researchers to quantitatively measure DSB end resection rates in the facile genetic model , S . pombe . Leveraging this assay , we find that Rev7 and the 53BP1 orthologue , Crb2 , specifically inhibit the RecQ-helicase-dependent long-range resection pathway . Moreover , through derepression of RecQ helicases , rev7∆ or crb2∆ cells can achieve very fast resection rates ( >20 kb/hr ) – approximately twice as fast as Exo1-dependent long-range resection . Our findings suggest that PARPi resistance can be driven by compensation through derepression of the RecQ-helicase-dependent resection pathway .
Measles is a leading cause of death among under-five children in India . In 2010 , the Indian government launched a national measles immunization campaign . We quantify the impact of the campaign on measles mortality using 27 , 000 child deaths from the Million Death Study ( MDS ) , a nationally representative sample of all deaths in India . Measles mortality rates declined by 27% in campaign states following campaign launch , while it was only 11% in non-campaign states . The declines were steeper in girls than boys . Measles mortality risk was lower among children born in 2009 or later . Children living in campaign districts had lower measles mortality risk . We estimate that the campaign averted between 41 , 000 to 56 , 000 deaths during 2010–2013 . The campaign had a significant impact on measles mortality in India . Measles elimination is feasible .
Tuberculosis ( TB ) disproportionately affects the Inuit population of Canada . Understanding transmission dynamics is essential for addressing the impact of TB on the population and implementing effective control measures . In this study , we used deep sequencing to re-examine a major TB outbreak in Nunavik , Canada . We identified a novel super-spreading event and showed that deep sequencing can improve resolution of transmission events in this high-transmission setting . This has important implications for TB control in the Canadian North and other high-transmission environments .
DLL1 and DLL4 are Delta-like ligands that activate NOTCH1 and NOTCH2 receptors , respectively . Although they are functionally similar in vitro , they have distinct roles in somitogenesis . Here , we show that this context-dependent functional divergence is encoded in the ligand ectodomains . In cell-based assays , domain swaps of the extracellular domain of DLL1 with the intracellular domain of DLL4 reveal that this region encodes the differences in activation of NOTCH1 and NOTCH2 . In transgenic mice , the exchange of the contact amino acids in the MNNL and DSL domains of DLL1 with those of DLL4 does not alter receptor selectivity in vitro , even though these changes increase NOTCH1 binding affinity . These results suggest that differences in the domain cores and/or contacts outside of the known DLL4-NOTCH1 interface are the factors that most contribute to the context-dependent functional divergence of DLL1 and DLL4 in vivo .
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) forms the outer membrane of Gram-negative bacteria , shielding the underlying peptidoglycan cell wall . LPS and peptidoglycan (PG) are synthesized and assembled independently in Gram-negative bacteria . We show that the Escherichia coli WaaL glycosyltransferase attaches O-antigen to LPS . A point-mutation in WaaL causes LPS to be modified with PG subunits intersecting these two pathways . We find that the synthesis of PG-modified LPS weakens cell wall integrity . We also show that the glycosylation of LPS does not impair OM function . Finally , we demonstrate that PG-modified LPS directly binds vancomycin , titrating it away from its intracellular target and conferring increased vancomycin-resistance .
Golgins are long , Golgi-associated proteins that help vesicles find their targets . We show that GCC185 , a Golgin required for transport of mannose 6-phosphate receptors from late endosomes to the trans Golgi , is short ( 145 nm ) , has splayed ends ( 85% ) and contains a central bubble ( 20 nm ) . GCC185 captures vesicles in vitro at its N-terminus . Flexibility in the central bubble is required for tethering and may allow GCC185 to collapse onto the Golgi surface and mediate vesicle tethering .
The GLO-Roots system provides an integrated-imaging system for studying root biology in soil-grown, light-shielded roots using luminescence-based reporters. The GLO-Roots system allows for the study of root architecture and gene expression patterns in light-shielded, soil-grown roots .
Protein function is regulated in several ways, including post-translational modifications, protein-protein interaction, and by the global environment. Here we show that protein function can also be regulated by fine-tuning the conformational state space of proteins . We directly observe protein regulation in yeast Hsp90 by single-molecule FRET (Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer) . We find that site-specific post-translational modifications , cochaperone binding , and macro-molecular crowding cause similar ensemble behavior , but different kinetics . The underlying kinetics of protein regulation affect functional and conformational steady states . Our results demonstrate that fine-tuning the conformational state space of proteins is a general mechanistic concept in cellular protein regulation .
Genetic mutations derived mainly from replication errors have been extensively studied . However , details such as the rate, molecular spectrum, and functional effects of transcript errors remain largely unknown . Here , we used an adapted rolling-circle sequencing approach to identify transcript errors in Escherichia coli , Bacillus subtilis , Agrobacterium tumefaciens , and Mesoplasma florum . Our results indicate that transcript-error rates are 3 to 4 orders of magnitude higher than genetic mutation rates . Furthermore , the bias in molecular spectra of transcript errors can be influenced by both RNA polymerases and cellular rNTP concentrations . Finally , the spatial distribution of transcript errors on RNAs provides novel insights into the mechanism of RNA quality-control in prokaryotes .
Mutations in human PINK1 ( hPINK1 ) are associated with autosomal recessive early-onset Parkinson’s disease ( PD ) . hPINK1 is a kinase that regulates mitophagy . However , the molecular mechanism by which hPINK1 is activated remains poorly understood . Here , we report the crystal structure of Tribolium castaneum PINK1 ( TcPINK1 ) , revealing unique structural insertions that contribute to the formation of a bowl-shaped binding site for ubiquitin . Furthermore , autophosphorylation of Ser205 ( Ser205 ) and the third insertion ( Ins3 ) together with autophosphorylation of Ser65 on ubiquitin and the ubiquitin-like ( Ubl ) domain of Parkin are critical for hPINK1 activity . These findings provide molecular insights into the mechanisms of hPINK1 activation and define the molecular basis of Parkinson’s disease-causing mutations .
Sex pheromone receptors (PRs) play a crucial role in chemical communication between mating partners in insects . In moths , PRs are tuned to type I pheromone compounds , which are straight-chain acetates , alcohols or aldehydes with 10 to 18 carbon atoms . Here , we identify a type I PR in the cotton leafworm Spodoptera littoralis that is highly expressed in male antennae . Using a combination of heterologous expression and in vivo genome editing methods , we demonstrate that SlitOR5 is the receptor for the major sex pheromone component emitted by females . Our results suggest that PRs tuned to type I pheromone compounds have evolved at least twice in Lepidoptera , opening up a new path for studying the evolution of moth pheromone communication .
The primary visual cortex (V1) is responsible for visual processing , but how visual responses of pyramidal neurons in V1 change during locomotion is not well understood . Here , we show that visual responses of pyramidal neurons increase during locomotion in awake mice . The increase in visual responses during locomotion is mediated by inhibitory neurons . The disinhibitory model , which proposes that inhibitory neurons mediate the increase in visual responses during locomotion , is challenged by our findings .
Transcription factors are capable of binding to a population of sequences closely related to a single optimal site . However , some transcription factors can bind to two distinct sequences representing two local optima in the Gibbs free energy of binding (ΔG) . Here , we present a study of the structure and thermodynamics of two homeodomain proteins , the posterior homeodomain proteins HOXB13 and CDX2 , each bound to their two optimal DNA sequences . The structures were determined by solving them using a method that is not mentioned in the given text . The thermodynamic analyses by isothermal titration calorimetry revealed that the two optimal DNA sequences were bound with similar ΔG (Gibbs free energy of binding) . The interaction with the CAA sequence was primarily driven by a change in enthalpy (ΔH) . In contrast , the interaction with the TCG site binding was driven by a smaller loss of entropy (ΔS) . The central equation of thermodynamics representing the relationship is ΔG = ΔH - TΔS , where T represents temperature . The interaction of HOXB13 with both CAA and TCG sequences was likely to be general to most macromolecular interactions , as they commonly involve interaction of the macromolecules with a network of interconnected water-molecules , whose formation involves a trade-off between enthalpy and entropy .
Metabolic niches refer to the specific metabolic role or function that a particular microbial species occupies within a multi-species community. Here , we show that clonal populations of the bacterium Bacillus subtilis can control their environment through a process of dynamic, environmentally-sensitive state-switching using metabolic specialization . We identify two distinct metabolic subpopulations in exponentially growing Bacillus subtilis cultures , one that produces acetate and another that differentially expresses metabolic genes for the production of acetoin , a pH-neutral storage molecule . The two distinct metabolic subpopulations differ from each other in terms of growth rates and show dynamic interconversion between states . The coordination of metabolic specialization within a clonal bacterial population is not clear and requires further investigation . The potential benefits of metabolic specialization within a clonal bacterial population include the ability to control the environment and adapt to changing conditions through dynamic state-switching .
Overproduction of immunoglobulin light chains (LCs) leads to systemic amyloidosis . The VL homo-dimer is a pathogenic species in systemic amyloidosis . We identify ligands that bind to the cavity at the VL dimer interface and hinder amyloid fibril formation . Methylene blue and sulfasalazine are the most effective ligands identified in this study . Crystal structures of VL dimers bound to methylene blue and sulfasalazine reveal ligand binding at the hydrophobic cavity . The presence of ligands in the complex hinders dimer disassociation into amyloid-prone monomers , thereby preventing amyloid formation . The ability of ligands to hinder amyloid formation indicates a promising approach for treatment of systemic amyloidosis .
Cancer gene expression is aberrant . However , the molecular mechanisms underlying this aberrant expression are poorly understood . We have analysed the transcriptome of 50 ccRCC tumor and matched normal samples from The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) . We found that transcription read-through is prevalent in ccRCC . Moreover , high levels of transcription read-through correlate with poor patient survival . SETD2 mutations promote transcription read-through in ccRCC . In fact , SETD2 mutations are sufficient to rescue the transcription termination defects of SETD2 mutant ccRCC cells . We also report the recurrent generation of RNA chimeras by intergenic splicing following a read-through episode . In addition , we show that the anti-apoptotic oncogene BCL2 is overexpressed in ccRCC , which correlates positively with the levels of transcription read-through on the upstream gene . Our study highlights the importance of aberrant transcription termination in ccRCC and its impact on the transcriptome .
The number of nephrons in the kidney is a critical factor for renal health and is associated with a higher risk of developing renal diseases . Nephron progenitors are the cells that give rise to nephrons . Here , we show that R-spondins ( RSPO1/3 ) are required to maintain the pool of nephron progenitors throughout development . We further show that R-spondins act in a functionally redundant manner to permit WNT/β-catenin signalling . R-spondins act by interacting with the ubiquitin E3 ligases RNF43/ZNRF3 and thus suppress endocytosis of the WNT receptor complex . Deletion of R-spondins leads to a rapid decline of nephron progenitors , a loss of Bmp7 expression and a failure to activate Lef1/Fgf8/Wnt4 , which are critical for MET . R-spondins act in an LGR-independent manner in nephron progenitors . Our findings reveal a novel role for R-spondins in controlling renal stem/progenitor behaviour and provide insights into the molecular mechanisms that control nephrogenesis .
Lymph node metastasis is a common site of metastasis in solid cancers . Here , we show that pioneer metastatic cells in the lymph node sinus show inherent properties of lymph node colonization . Pioneer metastatic cells interact with Siglec1-expressing subcapsular sinus macrophages and provide a growth advantage to cancer cells . We find that Siglec1-expressing macrophages in the lymph node sinus are required for the growth of pioneer metastatic cells and for lymph node colonization by melanoma cells . These findings suggest that the interactions between pioneer metastatic cells and Siglec1-expressing macrophages in the lymph node sinus are a crucial step in the metastatic colonization of the lymph node .
Sleep during development is critical for refining brain circuitry and neural stem cell proliferation . However , the role of sleep during early periods of nervous system elaboration has not been explored . Here , we establish Drosophila larvae as a tractable system for studying sleep during nascent periods . We identify a sleep state in Drosophila larvae , define the principal cellular controls of larval sleep , and demonstrate that sleep during early development regulates neurogenesis . Our findings suggest that sleep during early life is critical for regulating proliferation of neural progenitors , and that the mechanistic divergence of sleep regulatory mechanisms between early life and adulthood may be a function of the changing environmental cues and developmental challenges .
Replicative helicases are essential enzymes for DNA replication . They are structurally characterized as ring-shaped hexamers . How well is the chemo-mechanical utilization of replicative helicases in DNA unwinding understood ? Here , we examined the unwinding activity of the replicative helicase G40P using a single-molecule fluorescence assay with a single base pair resolution . The high-resolution assay revealed that G40P is a very weak helicase that stalls at barriers as small as a single GC base pair . The step size of G40P unwinding is one base pair . The binding of a single ATPγS can stall the unwinding activity of G40P . DnaG , the host primase , stimulates the unwinding activity of G40P and reduces slippage events . Our data suggest that for hexameric helicases unwinding occurs in single base pair steps .
Homologous recombination is widely recognized as a mechanism for repairing DNA double strand breaks . However , its role in genetic exchange and evolution of mitochondrial genomes remains unclear . We show that homologous recombination occurs in Drosophila mitochondrial genomes . Recombination is induced by double strand breaks and occurs in heteroplasmic Drosophila lines . We also show that homologous recombination can occur between diverged mitochondrial genomes . Our findings suggest that recombination can be harnessed to understand the function and evolution of the mitochondrial genome .
The Ras superfamily GTPases are critical regulators of membrane trafficking . Despite their high degree of sequence similarity , the two Ras family members , Ras and Rab , are activated by distinct GDP-release pathways . Here , we show that the activation pathways of different Rab GTPases are also distinct . Crystal structures of Rab GEF complexes reveal a common nucleotide exchange mechanism , but the switch II glutamate residue is required for GEF-mediated GDP-release in DENND1 and DrrA . In contrast , Rab1 switch II glutamine mutants are refractory to activation by TRAPP , yet can be activated by Rabex . These findings highlight the plasticity in the activation mechanisms of closely related Rab GTPases .
We sequenced all available specimens from tuberculosis patients in a district in Malawi to investigate transmission . We found that lineages of Mycobacterium tuberculosis differed in transmissibility and virulence , but these differences were not confounded by HIV status , drug resistance , or immigration . The proportion of disease due to recent infection decreased over time , and the proportion of transmissions decreased from 46% to 30% . The proportion of disease due to recent infection and the proportion of transmissions were unrelated to lineage . This large , long-term study provides strong evidence for differences in transmission patterns and virulence between the M . tuberculosis lineages .
The brain learns to represent complex stimuli by mapping them onto a single dimension . However , the neural basis of this compact representation is unknown . Here , we show that the human brain compactly represents novel stimuli on a single dimension by mapping them onto a neural code for magnitude . In the numerical task , stimuli with high payout probability shared a neural code with larger numbers . In the bandit task , stimuli with low payout probability shared a neural code with lower numbers . Our findings suggest that the brain compactly represents complex stimuli by mapping them onto a shared neural code for magnitude .
The amyloid hypothesis suggests that beta-amyloid ( Aβ ) deposition is the earliest event in the pathological cascade leading to Alzheimer's disease . The factors underlying Aβ deposition are incompletely understood . We examined whether baseline hippocampal activation at baseline predicted Aβ deposition and subsequent memory decline in cognitively normal older adults . We found that greater hippocampal activation at baseline was associated with increased Aβ deposition and decline in memory performance . Mediation analysis revealed that Aβ deposition mediated the relationship between baseline hippocampal activation and subsequent memory decline . These findings support the amyloid hypothesis and highlight the importance of Aβ in this process .
The main cause of drug addiction is brain-wide plasticity within neuronal ensembles , mediated by dynamic gene expression . However , the link between gene activity and modified behavior after repeated drug exposure is unknown . Here , we investigate the gene expression profile of cocaine-exposed mice in multiple brain regions , and find that the dorsal striatum is the major hub of brain-wide cocaine-driven gene expression . We find that the transcriptional response to cocaine is differentially recruited in the two subdomains of the dorsal striatum , with the ventrolateral striatum showing a robust and prolonged response . The ventrolateral striatum is composed of both direct- and indirect-pathway neurons , and we find that only the indirect-pathway neurons express Egr2 , a transcription factor known to support long-term plasticity . Furthermore , we show that the induction of Egr2 in the ventrolateral striatum supports cocaine-seeking behavior .
Chimeric antigen receptors ( CARs ) are synthetic receptors that reprogram T cells to kill cancer cells . Here , we report a family of CARs that program macrophages to engulf defined cancer antigens . CAR-Ps were engineered by modifying extracellular antibody fragments to recognize CD19 or CD22 , intracellular signaling domains from T cell receptor and Fc receptor γ ( FcRγ ) , and a cytoplasmic signaling domain from Megf10 or FcRɣ . CAR-Ps were expressed in J774A . 1 macrophages and NIH 3T3 fibroblasts , and the ability of CAR-Ps to direct macrophage engulfment of CD19- or CD22-coated synthetic particles or whole human cancer cells was assessed . CAR-Ps were also expressed in primary bone marrow-derived macrophages , and their ability to engulf cancer cells was tested in co-culture with cancer cells . CAR-Ps were able to direct macrophages to engulf CD19 or CD22-coated particles and whole cancer cells . CAR-Ps were engineered to include a tandem PI3K recruitment domain to enhance macrophage engulfment of whole cancer cells . CAR-P expression in macrophages reduced the number of cancer cells in co-culture . These results demonstrate that CAR-Ps can direct macrophage engulfment of cancer cells and suggest the promise of programmed immunity and the potential for applying CAR strategies to other immune cell lineages.
Neutrophilic inflammation is a common feature of chronic inflammatory diseases . Accelerating neutrophil apoptosis is a therapeutic potential for neutrophilic inflammatory disease . We performed an unbiased screen to identify compounds that accelerate neutrophil apoptosis in vitro and in vivo . Inhibitors of the ErbB family of receptor tyrosine kinases ( ErbBs ) were identified as potential therapeutic drivers of inflammation resolution . Inhibition of ErbBs accelerated neutrophil apoptosis and neutrophil efferocytosis in human neutrophils and zebrafish . In a murine model of acute lung injury , inhibitors of ErbBs accelerated neutrophil apoptosis and macrophage efferocytosis . ErbB inhibition overcomes neutrophil survival stimuli , making ErbB inhibitors a potential therapeutic strategy for inflammatory disease .
Life expectancy in Europe is expected to increase to 82 years . However , past mortality trends considered unreliable in forecasting life expectancy . We projected life expectancy for 18 European countries from 2014 to 2065 , while simultaneously taking into account the time-varying impact of smoking , obesity , and alcohol on mortality , and the mortality experiences of forerunner populations . We projected life expectancy to increase to 90 . 5 years for men and 92 . 8 years for women in 2065 . Our projection approach resulted in higher projected life expectancy values than those of the benchmark Lee–Carter mortality projection and the official mortality forecasts by Eurostat and the United Nations .
We conducted a genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) of parental lifespan in UK Biobank ( N = 1 , 012 , 240 ) , and used Bayesian prior-informed GWAS ( iGWAS ) to integrate 58 GWAS on mortality risk factors . We replicated 11 previously unreplicated associations with lifespan and identified six novel loci . We also replicated 10 previously reported associations , and found evidence against the remaining 11 . We used polygenic risk scores ( PRS ) to estimate the effect of genetic variants on lifespan . We found PRS was strongly associated with disease , but weaker with lifespan . We also found that the PRS was associated with an increased prevalence of Alzheimer’s disease , Parkinson’s disease , prostate cancer and breast cancer , the last three primarily in parents .
The Histone-like Nucleoid Structuring protein ( H-NS ) is a key global regulator in Gram-negative bacteria . H-NS is a DNA-bridging protein that regulates chromatin organization through its DNA-bridging activity . Here we show that the DNA-bridging activity of H-NS is modulated by physico-chemical factors and interaction partners . We reveal that the concentration of divalent ions drives a binary switch between a bridging and non-bridging DNA-binding mode in H-NS . H-NS activity is also modulated by co-regulators Hha and YdgT , which inhibit H-NS by disrupting DNA-bridging . Our findings provide a molecular understanding of the modulation of H-NS function by physico-chemical factors and interaction partners .
Somites are segmented structures formed from the presomitic mesoderm during vertebrate embryogenesis . Somites give rise to the vertebral column and are controlled by a conserved molecular oscillator . Recent progress has allowed the study of human paraxial mesoderm ( PM ) development using mouse and monkey pluripotent stem cells cultured as 2D monolayers . However , it is not clear if these in vitro systems recapitulate all aspects of in vivo somitogenesis . Here , we report the generation of human PM organoids ( Somitoids ) from human induced pluripotent stem cells ( hPSCs ) that reproduce important features of somitogenesis not previously captured in conventional monolayer differentiation cultures . Our organoid system recapitulates the molecular , morphological , and functional features of PM development . Finally , Somitoids can be differentiated into somite derivatives , including sclerotome and dermomyotome . Our organoid system provides a powerful tool for studying the regulation and dynamics of human somitogenesis , as well as the morphogenetic processes of somite formation .
The focus of this study is to determine the influence of booster doses and prior infection on the immune defense elicited by mRNA vaccines against SARS-CoV-2 .
Ral proteins are crucial downstream Ras oncoproteins in human cancers . However , the molecular mechanisms underlying the activation of Ral by Ras and its specific contribution to cell invasion and metastasis are poorly understood . Here we uncovered that RalB is specifically involved in invasion and metastasis downstream of Ras . We found that RalB is recruited to the leading edge of the Wave Regulatory Complex ( WRC ) by its effector exocyst , which is an octameric protein complex involved in the formation of the actin cytoskeleton . By using an optogenetic approach , we demonstrated that local Ral activation by light-controlled exocyst recruitment stimulates cell invasion in vitro and in vivo . Interestingly , the role of RalB in human breast cancers was previously unexplored . We found that RalB expression increases in a manner consistent with progression toward metastasis in human breast cancers . These findings support the emerging idea that Ral proteins could be considered appealing targets for novel anticancer strategies .
Maternal hyperglycemia is associated with congenital heart disease ( CHD ) in human embryos . However , the mechanisms underlying this association are not well understood . Here , we show that high glucose levels inhibit cardiac maturation in vitro and in vivo . High glucose induces cardiac proliferation and inhibits cardiac maturation by suppressing the pro-mitotic–anti-maturation effect of glucose . In addition , high glucose levels are associated with decreased glucose uptake by fetal cardiac tissue in late gestational stages . These data suggest that high glucose levels during late embryonic cardiogenesis may contribute to the pathogenesis of CHD in diabetic pregnancy .
More than 30% of genes in higher eukaryotes are regulated by promoter-proximal pausing of RNA polymerase II ( Pol II ) . The 7SK snRNP complex sequesters CDK9-containing P-TEFb until stimulation . MePCE ( methylphosphate capping enzyme ) is a component of the 7SK snRNP complex . We show that JMJD6 ( JmjD6 ) is a novel protease of the 7SK snRNP complex . JMJD6 specifically cleaves MePCE at R171 site . JMJD6 knockout or overexpression leads to destabilization of the 7SK snRNP complex . JMJD6 cleaves MePCE to release P-TEFb from the 7SK snRNP complex and recruits P-TEFb to CTD of Pol II . These discoveries provide a new insight into the mechanism of transcription regulation in higher eukaryotes .
Chromosome 7 deletions are highly prevalent in myelodysplastic syndrome ( MDS ) . We generated mice with a heterozygous germ line deletion of a 2-Mb interval of chromosome band 5A3 , which syntenically deletes three candidate myeloid tumor suppressor genes located on human chromosome 7q22 . Mutant hematopoietic cells exhibit cardinal features of MDS , such as an expanded long-term hematopoietic stem ( HSC ) compartment and altered distribution of myeloid progenitors . The deletion also perturbs HSC and myeloid progenitor repopulating potentials , which are exacerbated by physiologic aging and upon serial transplantation . The 5A3 deletion partially rescues the repopulating deficit of Gata2 mutant HSC in MDS . Changes in the expression of genes related to oxidative phosphorylation are observed in 5A3+/del HSC , and levels of reactive oxygen species are elevated . Oxygen consumption is perturbed in 5A3+/del HSC and myeloid progenitors . These studies provide the first functional data linking 7q22 deletions to MDS pathogenesis .
Antimalarial drug resistance has historically arisen through convergent de novo mutations in Plasmodium falciparum parasite populations in Southeast Asia . In South America , artemisinin resistance has been associated with the pfk13 C580Y mutation , which has emerged independently of Southeast Asia . We investigated the pfk13 mutational landscape of parasites collected in Guyana in 2010 and 2016-2017 . The pfk13 C580Y mutation was identified in 14 of 854 samples ( 1 . 6% ) , and prevalence fluctuated between 0 . 5% and 25 . 0% over the study period . Gene editing of French Guianan parasites revealed that the pfk13 C580Y mutation confers high levels of in vitro artemisinin resistance . Introducing the R539T mutation , associated with high in vitro artemisinin resistance , into pfk13 C580Y parasites resulted in a higher fitness cost . These findings suggest that the pfk13 C580Y mutation has persisted in Guyana since 2010 , and that the low prevalence of this mutation is due to a fitness cost .
Single-particle tracking ( SPT ) is a powerful tool for directly observing protein binding and diffusion dynamics in live cells . However , SPT data is often subject to experimental and analysis biases . Here , we introduce a comprehensive framework for correcting for these biases . We first validate Spot-On on simulated data . We then apply Spot-On to stroboscopic photo-activation SPT ( spaSPT ) data from live mammalian cells spanning a wide range of nuclear dynamics . We show that Spot-On consistently and robustly inferred subpopulations and diffusion constants from pooled SPT data . Finally , we demonstrate that Spot-On is also robust to experimental biases .
Alexander disease ( Alexander disease , or AxD ) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder caused by missense mutations in glial fibrillary acidic protein ( GFAP ) . The mutations cause reactive astrocytes to sequester mutant GFAP , leading to the formation of aggregated , insoluble filaments . Here , we identify a novel post-translational modification signature linking different GFAP missense mutations in infantile Alexander disease . We show that a selective phosphorylation of GFAP at Ser13 is associated with perinuclear accumulation and incorporation of mutant GFAP within cytoplasmic aggregates in AxD patient astrocytes and in iPSC-derived AxD astrocytes . Furthermore , we demonstrate that the phosphorylation of Ser13 is associated with increased GFAP cleavage by caspase-6 , which is selectively expressed in young AxD patients . Our study provides insights into the mechanisms underlying the pathology of Alexander disease and identifies potential targets for therapeutic interventions .
Circumsporozoite protein (CSP) is a major component of the leading malaria vaccine RTS, S/AS01 , which is currently associated with the humoral response against the CSP repeats . Here , we characterized the structure of the PbCSP repeats unliganded and as recognized by mAb 3D11 . Our molecular studies reveal that mAb 3D11 binds across all PbCSP repeat motifs and induces structural ordering of PbCSP in a spiral-like conformation using homotypic interactions . These findings provide insights into antibody evolution in mammals against the CSP repeats of Plasmodium sporozoites and highlight a common mechanism of the immune response against the CSP repeats across Plasmodium species .
The main limitation of current low magnification objectives in confocal and nonlinear microscopy is having low numerical aperture, resulting in insufficient depth resolution and discrimination. We have developed a multi-immersion objective lens for wide-field epi-fluorescence and laser scanning confocal microscopy with a working distance of over 3 mm and a 6 mm field of view that is corrected for a wide range of wavelengths and demonstrate its advantages with large biological specimens .
The Ocr protein of Bacteriophage T7 inhibits host restriction enzymes and transcription . Here we show that Ocr binds to host RNA polymerase ( RNAP ) in a cleft region where sigma factors and DNA reside during transcription synthesis . Ocr binds to RNAP as a dimer , which mimics a bent B-form DNA . Ocr inhibits RNAP recruitment by competing with σ factors and disrupts the transcription process . Our structural work provides a basis for the inhibition of transcription by DNA mimicry proteins .
Mutations in TUBB4A are associated with Hypomyelination with Atrophy of Basal Ganglia and Cerebellum (H-ABC) . In this study , we developed a novel knock-in mouse model of the classic TUBB4A p . Asp249Asn ( D249N ) mutation and demonstrate that the mutation leads to severe hypomyelination and progressive neurodegeneration . In vivo , Tubb4aD249N/D249N mice display progressive tremor and ataxia , as well as significant gait abnormalities . In vitro , Tubb4aD249N/D249N neurons and oligodendrocytes exhibit decreased survival , axonal growth , and myelination . The observed phenotypes are consistent with the complex cellular physiology observed in H-ABC and suggest that the TUBB4A mutation is likely due to independent effects on oligodendrocytes , striatal neurons , and cerebellar granule cells , along with altered microtubule dynamics .
Neurovascular coupling ( NVC ) is critical for cerebral blood flow regulation . The Kir2 . 1 channel is a key element in NVC , but its regulation is not understood . Here , we demonstrate that the inhibition of the inward rectifier Kir2 . 1 channel is dependent on sustained basal levels of phosphatidylinositol 4 , 5-bisphosphate ( PIP2 ) . In contrast , Gq-protein-coupled receptor ( GqPCR ) agonists deplete PIP2 and simultaneously activate the TRPV4 channel , a Ca2+/Na+-permeable channel that is intrinsically inhibited by PIP2 . Simultaneous disinhibition of TRPV4 and Kir2 . 1 channels through GqPCR-mediated PIP2 depletion favors TRPV4 activity over Kir2 . 1 activity . Our findings suggest that GqPCR signaling can tune the balance between electrical and Ca2+-influx signaling in the capillary endothelium .
Engulfment is a fundamental process in bacterial cell biology , in which a mother cell encloses a smaller forespore within the mother cell cytoplasm . However , the molecular mechanism underlying this process is not well understood . Here , we have used cryo-electron tomography coupled with cryo-focused ion beam milling to visualize Bacillus subtilis sporulation in three dimensions at a resolution of ~100–300 nm . Our data show that the septal peptidoglycan is not completely degraded at the onset of engulfment . Instead , the septum gets slightly thinner as it curves into the mother cell , with PG continuously present between the mother cell and the forespore membranes . We also show that the mother cell membrane migrates around the forespore by forming tiny finger-like projections , the formation of which depends on DMP complexes tethering to and degrading the PG ahead of the engulfing membrane .
Electrophysiological recordings are a powerful tool to monitor protein operation with high temporal resolution down to the single molecule level . However , it is not known whether the main advantage of electrophysiological recordings lies in the ability to monitor protein operation with high temporal resolution or in the ability to track either ion flow arising from channel opening or the synchronized movement of charged residues and/or ions within the membrane electric field . In the present study , we demonstrate that electrophysiological recordings can track either ion flow arising from channel opening or the synchronized movement of charged residues and/or ions within the membrane electric field . We recorded the membrane capacitance and the membrane potential in HEK293 cells stably expressing the serotonin transporter (SERT) . We show that binding of cocaine and 5-HT to SERT resulted in a displacement current and an apparent change in capacitance , which were consistent with the predictions of the Gouy-Chapman model . The ability to monitor ligand binding to proteins in real time and in a label-free manner using electrophysiological recordings is a powerful tool to study ligand binding to proteins in real time and in a label-free manner using electrophysiological recordings is a powerful tool to study ligand binding and to extract kinetic information on this key biological reaction .
The nitrogen metabolic network of Mycobacterium tuberculosis is poorly understood , and how it evolved to persist in the human host is not clear . Here we investigate the nitrogen metabolic network in M . tuberculosis , using bacterial physiology and stable isotope tracing coupled to mass spectrometrics metabolomics methods . We show that M . tuberculosis can utilise all 20 proteinogenic amino acids as nitrogen sources . Amino acid uptake is not homeostatically controlled , leading to increased pool sizes of several amino acids . Amino acids are superior nitrogen sources to NH4+ , and co-metabolism of nitrogen sources is observed . The nitrogen metabolic network in M . tuberculosis is flexible and likely evolved in response to the human host environment .
The evolutionary dynamics of influenza within infected humans remain poorly understood . We deep-sequenced viral populations in four immunocompromised patients with long-term H3N2 influenza infections , revealing a small set of recurrent within-host mutations that reach high global frequencies . These recurrent mutations emerge in parallel in multiple patients , and across multiple patients and the global influenza population . Our findings suggest that influenza evolution in infected humans may be shaped by some of the same immunological and evolutionary constraints that shape global evolution .
Neuron-Toxoplasma interactions are poorly understood . Here , we use a Cre-based mouse model to map neurons that interact with Toxoplasma proteins . We find that TINs ( neurons injected with Toxoplasma proteins ) are most commonly found in the cortex and striatum . TINs are co-localized with markers for inhibitory neurons ( FoxP2+ ) and medium spiny neurons ( DARPP32+ ) . Electrophysiology studies show that TINs have highly aberrant electrophysiology compared to uninfected neurons , but bystander neurons ( neurons in close proximity to TINs but not injected with Toxoplasma proteins ) show only minor changes . Finally , by 8 weeks post-infection , TINs are expected to be almost completely eliminated . Our findings suggest that neuron-Toxoplasma interactions are highly targeted and suggest that the death of neurons injected with Toxoplasma protein is important for parasite control .
Cholinergic projections from the basal forebrain and brainstem are thought to promote arousal , but their role in sleep is less clear . Here we show that cholinergic fibers in the thalamic reticular nucleus ( TRN ) of transgenic mice expressing channelrhodopsin-2 are optically stimulated to elicit spindle oscillations , shorten sleep onset time , and increase the duration of non-rapid eye movement ( NREM ) sleep . Activation of cholinergic fibers in the TRN directly excites GABAergic neurons via α7-containing nicotinic acetylcholine receptors , and this excitation is sufficient to induce bursts of action potentials , spindle oscillations , and promote sleep onset and NREM sleep . Our results provide new insight into the mechanisms controlling sleep .
Many people believe that crop monoculture is unsustainable and that species diversity in agriculture is necessary to overcome its shortcomings . Here , we investigate whether species coculture can overcome the shortcomings of crop monoculture . We conducted three field experiments and three mesocosm experiments to determine how coculture with aquatic animals benefits a rice paddy ecosystem in terms of productivity , nutrient-use efficiency , and the stability of soil N content . We found that rice yield was higher in the rice-aquatic animal coculture than in the rice monoculture . Crop-aquatic animal coculture also had higher aquatic animal yields and promoted organic matter decomposition . Dietary reconstruction analysis based on 13C and 15N showed that the organic matter decomposition rate was greater with the rice-aquatic animal coculture compared to the rice monoculture . Our results suggest that crop-aquatic animal coculture can increase rice yield , promote organic matter decomposition , and reduce the need for fertilizers and pesticides .
Dopamine signals reward in animal brains . Recent studies have shown that a single presentation of a sugar reward to Drosophila triggers both short- and long-term olfactory memories ( STM and LTM , respectively ) . Here , we show that a feedback circuit consisting of a single class of dopamine neurons ( PAM-α1 ) projecting to a restricted region of the mushroom body ( MB ) , and a specific MB output cell type ( MBON-α1 ) whose dendrites that same region , is required for the acquisition and early consolidation of appetitive LTM . The output of MBON-α1 is required for the acquisition of LTM , and its blockade impairs LTM formation and retrieval . These results suggest that the feedback circuit provides an ongoing activity that is required for the acquisition and consolidation of appetitive LTM .
Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) establishes a lifelong infection through the establishment of latency . However , the molecular understanding of HCMV latency is incomplete . We have used single cell RNA-seq to characterize latency in monocytes and hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells ( HSPCs ) in culture . We identified cell surface markers that are inversely-correlated with viral transcript levels , and show that these markers can be used to enrich for cells with higher viral transcript levels . In latent HCMV- infected monocytes , viral gene expression is associated with a reduced immune response and with an anergic-like state that is important for latency maintenance . Moreover , we show that latent HCMV- infected HSPCs exhibit a similar anergic-like state and are enriched in genes associated with monocyte lineage priming . Our findings highlight the cell surface markers that are associated with latent HCMV infection and suggest that the anergic-like state of latent monocytes is important for HCMV latency maintenance .
Understanding the mechanisms of autoimmune disease is hampered by a lack of knowledge of the specific autoantigens that drive disease . Here , we used programmable phage display to identify a large set of autoantigens in people with Autoimmune Polyglandular Syndrome type 1 ( APS1 ) . We identified 69 novel autoantigens , including RFX6 , KHDC3L , and ACP4 , which exhibit tissue-restricted expression . We also identified novel antigen associations with clinical phenotypes , including diarrheal-type intestinal dysfunction , premature ovarian insufficiency , and diabetes . Our data provide insights into shared mechanisms of autoimmune disease and the importance of antigen discovery for understanding disease mechanisms .
The derivation of embryonic stem cells (ESCs) from mouse embryos at the naive stage of pluripotency is an important event in mouse development and in the generation of ESCs in vitro . The differentiation of mouse inner cell mass into epiblast stem cells (EpiSCs) requires the FGF signaling cascade . We report the first molecular characterization of ovipositional finch blastoderms and find that cells derived from finch blastoderms at oviposition and cultured in the presence of a MEK inhibitor and LIF retain expression of pluripotency markers; Nanog , PouV expression , and alkaline phosphatase (AP ) activity . In contrast , chick cells taken from newly laid embryos and cultured under the same conditions did not produce Nanog , PouV , or AP-positive aggregates . Our data suggest that birds and mammals share a common regulatory mechanism in the maintenance of pluripotency .
Sphingosine-1-phosphate ( S1P ) is a lysophospholipid mediator generated through sphingomyelin metabolism , best known as a receptor-dependent regulator of lymphocyte trafficking and vascular homeostasis . Sphingosine kinases ( Sphk1 and Sphk2 ) generate S1P in mammalian embryos , but little is known about the functions of Sphk2 . Here we show that maternal-zygotic mutant zebrafish embryos lacking Sphk2 have depleted S1P levels and elevated levels of sphingosine . The mutant embryos phenocopy the maternal-zygotic betty boop ( bbp ) mutant embryos , which are resistant to sphingosine-induced toxicity . Furthermore , the mutant embryos have increased levels of a ceramide synthase ( Cers2b ) gene , which is strikingly up-regulated in sphk2MZ embryos . Cers2b protein itself can partially repress activity of its own promoter , dependent on a HOX domain but independent of enzymatic activity , and this repression is relieved by addition of sphingosine . Thus , we identify cis-linked sphingolipid transcriptional response sequences , and reveal a sensing mechanism controlling sphingolipid levels by a metabolic enzyme that participates in a feedback program .
In social insect colonies , food and endogenously produced molecules are transmitted mouth-to-mouth through stomodeal trophallaxis . Here , we use quantitative proteomics to investigate the trophallactic fluid within colonies of the carpenter ant Camponotus floridanus . We find that trophallactic fluid proteomes are filled with biomarkers reflecting biotic and abiotic conditions at both the colony and individual scale . Young colonies prioritize direct carbohydrate processing , while mature colonies prioritize accumulation and transmission of stored resources . We find that proteins abundant in mature colonies are implicated in oxidative stress , aging , and social insect caste determination , potentially acting as superorganismal hormones . Nurses , which are closer to the queen in the social network , show higher abundance of oxidative stress-related proteins . Our results provide a framework for understanding how social insect colonies could share metabolic costs and benefits .
Holoprosencephaly (HPE) is a birth defect characterized by abnormal rostroventral midline patterning . HPE arises in approximately 1 in 250 conceptions . Genetic mutations in the Nodal and Hedgehog (HH) signaling pathways are associated with HPE . However , poorly understood mechanisms of HPE involve the interaction of genetic and environmental risk factors . We report that mutation of the co-receptor CDON , a component of HH signaling , synergizes with fetal alcohol exposure to produce HPE phenotypes in mice . The synergistic interaction occurs during Nodal-dependent specification of the primitive streak from the anterior primitive streak . In vitro , fetal alcohol exposure inhibits Activin/Nodal pathway signaling in mouse embryonic stem cells (mEpiSCs ) , demonstrating that fetal alcohol acts via Nodal signaling . These results provide insight into the poorly understood mechanisms of HPE and contribute to understanding gene-environment interaction in a multifactorial model of a common birth defect .
Maladaptive responses to stress in individuals with alcohol use disorder are hallmarks of alcohol use disorder. While the mechanisms underlying maladaptive responses to stress in alcohol use disorder are not well characterized , recent evidence suggests that the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis ( BNST ) is a critical molecular substrate for these responses . We find that dysregulation of cortical inputs to BNST Pdyn neurons and BNST Pdyn neurons themselves underlie lasting behavioral changes to stressors that emerge after chronic drinking . These findings suggest that increased cortical inputs to BNST Pdyn neurons may underlie maladaptive responses to stress in alcohol use disorder .
Haematopoiesis occurs in the limb bones of most tetrapods . The process of blood cell production is called haematopoiesis . The fossil record of the evolution of the long bones of tetrapods is scarce . In this study , we investigated several stem amphibians and stem amniotes to provide the first glimpses for characterising the early evolution of long-bone elongation and bone-marrow roles . We describe a large number of globuli ossei in the long bones of several stem amphibians and stem amniotes . We show that long-bone elongation occurs through a columnar pattern of trabeculae in stem amniotes , and that it is exclusively based on the intensive production of globuli ossei in stem amphibians . We conclude that the ability to produce globuli ossei does not seem to be the leading or unique factor for performing one or the other of the elongation and calcification processes .
Daily life experience shapes and maintains the detailed finger topography in the hand area of the primary somatosensory cortex . Here , we show that the preserved missing hand topography in the primary somatosensory cortex is not maintained by continued sensory input . Two amputees , with 31 and 25 years since amputation , respectively , reported vivid kinaesthetic phantom sensations during individual digit movements , which elicited activity patterns in the somatosensory cortex resembling digit preference and inter-digit overlap . These patterns were similar to those found in control subjects . The persistence of finger topography in the primary somatosensory cortex even decades after amputation opens the question of what happens to a cortical territory once its main input is lost .
KATP channels respond to intracellular adenosine nucleotides . KATP channels are large oligomeric complexes consisting of four SUR1 transporters and four Kir6 inward rectifier K+ channels . The human KATP channel is composed of SUR1 and Kir6 . 2 . Here , we report the cryo-EM structures of human KATP channels with bound Mg2+-adenosine nucleotides . The structures reveal the nucleotide-binding domains of SUR1 dimerized with Mg2+-adenosine nucleotides in the degenerate site and Mg2+-adenosine nucleotides in the consensus site . The two structures presented are the quatrefoil and propeller forms of the human pancreatic KATP channel .
The Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeast is a metabolic specialist that strongly prefers to utilize glucose as a carbon source . Many bacteria that co-occur with S . cerevisiae can induce a prion known as [GAR+] that allows the yeast to circumvent glucose repression and utilize other carbon sources . Here , we identify lactic acid as a bacterially secreted molecule that induces [GAR+] in S . cerevisiae . Lactic acid can induce [GAR+] in a concentration dependent manner , and can also induce [GAR+]-like epigenetic states in evolutionarily distant organisms that diverged from S . cerevisiae 200 million years ago . We propose that lactic acid is a signal that promotes [GAR+] induction in yeast . Our findings provide a molecular explanation for Pasteur’s observations , and indicate that links between lactate and diversification of metabolic strategies have been repeatedly employed to modulate the collective behavior of eukaryotic cells .
The Sonic hedgehog ( Shh ) limb bud organizing centre ( ZPA ) regulates Shh expression in the distal limb . We show that the ZRS enhancer is poised throughout the distal limb bud , but not the proximal limb bud . The ZRS is poised in the distal limb bud by FGF signalling which maintains the enhancer in a state of priming . The enhancer is then activated by GABPα , a transcriptional activator , which recruits histone acetyltransferase ( HAT ) p300 and leads to the enrichment of histone H3K27ac . The histone deacetylase HDAC2 interacts with ETV4 , a repressor of Shh expression , and ETV4 is displaced from the ZRS when FGF signalling is inhibited by NIN . Thus , FGF signalling is required to maintain the poised state of the ZRS and to recruit GABPα which in turn recruits p300 and leads to the activation of the ZRS .
Embryogenesis is a process that involves the development and growth of an embryo from the fertilization of an egg to the formation of a complete organism. Complex traits , such as embryonic lethality , may be influenced by many genetic modifiers that may have little effect individually but collectively influence penetrance . We used quantitative genetics to study the genetic modifiers of embryonic lethality in Caenorhabditis elegans . We found that embryonic lethality is highly penetrant in wild-type populations and that it is mediated by many genetic modifiers that are pervasive in natural populations . We also found that these modifiers are conditionally functional , acting tissue-specifically and often in a gene-specific manner . Our findings highlight the extent of conditional functionality in complex trait architecture and demonstrate that cryptic genetic variation is an important component of genetic architecture in natural populations .
Antigen recognition through the T cell receptor ( TCR ) is one of the primary determinants of the adaptive immune response . Here , we show that preexisting memory CD4 T cells can exist in unexposed antigen-naïve hosts and predict vaccine-elicited immunity . Our data show that individuals with preexisting memory CD4 T cell clonotypes have an earlier and higher antibody titers and mounted a more robust CD4 T cell response to hepatitis B vaccine . Moreover , we identify a set of vaccine-specific TCRβ sequence patterns which can be used to predict which individuals will have an early and more vigorous response to HB vaccine .
The naive T cell precursor frequency determines the magnitude of immunodominance . However , the impact of a single positively selecting ligand on the specificity of selected TCRs remains undefined . We generated a transgenic mouse expressing a naturally occurring self-peptide , gp250 , for its ability to positively select the MCC-specific TCR: AND . The gp250/I-Ek ligand greatly enhanced MCC-tetramer+ CD4+ T cells and influenced the immunodominance hierarchy . CDR3 sequencing revealed that gp250 skewed the positive selection toward MCC-reactive conserved CDR3 features , especially those CDR3s with serine at α91 and asparagine at β97 . Our data establish a direct and causal relationship between a selecting self-peptide and the specificity of selected TCRs .
Perception conveys behaviorally relevant information about objects , which is achieved by combining information from multiple sensory channels . Here , we investigate how different sensory channels are integrated in the sense of touch . We show that different sensory channels are integrated differently and that this integration reflects the disparate response properties of the input channels . Finally , we demonstrate how this integration shapes the strength and timing of cortical responses in a way that maximizes information transmission .
Factors such as human population structure, prior immunity, and climate influence dengue transmission and control in Fiji . We combined population-representative paired sera collected before and after the 2013/14 dengue-3 outbreak in Fiji with surveillance data to examine factors shaping infection risk and transmission dynamics . Analysis of detailed serological data provided insights into age-specific patterns of infection that would not be identified from seropositivity thresholds alone . We estimated the highest infection rate was in the 10–19 year-old age group , whereas proportionally the most reported cases were in the 20–29 year-old group . The estimated value of the basic reproduction number , R0 , over the course of the year was 1 . 12 ( 95% CrI: 1 . 02–1 . 25 ) , with a peak value of 1 . 87 ( 1 . 70–2 . 07 ) in January 2014 . Analysis of surveillance and serological data using a Bayesian approach suggested that seasonal variation in transmission and herd immunity alone could not explain the observed dynamics . An additional reduction in transmission coinciding with a vector clean-up campaign suggested that control measures may have contributed to the decline in transmission .
Computational modeling in cognitive neuroscience is an important tool for understanding the neural basis of behavior and for guiding hypothesis testing. However , computational modeling is often hampered by limitations in likelihood functions for generative models . Here we propose neural network ( NN ) methods to address these limitations . We show that these methods can be used to approximate likelihood functions for arbitrary generative models and enable fast posterior sampling . Our methods provide a flexible and scalable framework for computational modeling in cognitive neuroscience .
The lung alveolus is a gas-exchange compartment that is essential for life . Endothelial cells are an essential component of the gas exchange machinery in the lung alveolus . However , the heterogeneity of the lung endothelium has remained incompletely understood . Using single-cell analytics , we identified multiple endothelial cell populations in the mouse lung at homeostasis . We found that these populations are enriched in genes associated with blood vessel development and angiogenesis . After influenza infection , we identified a novel endothelial cell population , Car4-high ECs , that are enriched in genes associated with vasculogenesis and blood vessel development and are primed to receive reparative signals from alveolar type I cells . Car4-high ECs are preferentially localized after influenza injury in regions of mild to moderate injury . We also demonstrate that the newly emergent proliferative endothelial cell population contributes to endothelial regeneration after influenza infection .
Sexual interactions have a potent influence on health in various species , including mammals . Here we show that brief sexual interactions with males can shorten the lifespan of young hermaphrodites in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans . Surprisingly , young hermaphrodites are remarkably resistant to the negative impact of mating with males , even though they have self-sperm that are known to promote the demise of the opposite sex . The presence of self-sperm mediates the protection from mating-induced death by acting via a sperm-sensing pathway in the soma . This pathway is conserved in other hermaphroditic nematode species , suggesting that the mechanism of action may be important for nematode hermaphrodites to maximize reproductive success .
Understanding the neural basis of behavior requires complementing techniques that provide single-neuron access over a limited region with techniques that capture neural population responses over a large region . Here we report results of a new method using widefield imaging of genetically encoded calcium indicators ( GCaMP ) to measure neural population responses at the scale of orientation columns in visual cortex ( V1 ) of behaving macaque monkeys . Our first results include widefield imaging of GCaMP6f signals from V1 of behaving macaque monkeys . The measured tuning properties of the GCaMP signals match the predictions of a computational model that sums the responses of V1 neurons , characterized by prior single unit measurements , and are consistent with the hypothesis that widefield GCaMP signals reflect the linearly summed local spiking activity , while widefield voltage sensitive dye ( VSD ) signals reflect the linearly summed local membrane potential .
Membrane proteins are challenging to work with due to their insolubility in aqueous solution and poor stability in detergent micelles . Here we present the peptidisc method which stabilizes membrane proteins in aqueous solution without additional lipids . The peptidisc is composed of multiple copies of a short amphipathic bi-helical peptide (NSPr) wrapping around the membrane-exposed part of the target protein . The method is rapid , cost-effective , and may emerge as a universal tool for high-throughput stabilization of membrane proteins .
The RecA filament forms a helix on single-stranded DNA and searches for a homologous double-stranded DNA by sliding along the DNA track . Here , we demonstrate that RecA filament slides along double-stranded DNA . The diffusion coefficient of RecA filament sliding is approximately 800 bp2/s . Homology recognition can occur with as few as 6 nt of complementary base pairs . Modeling suggests that sliding can accelerate homology search by as much as 200 fold .
We asked monkeys to use head gaze orientation of a portrayed conspecific to identify the spatial target the portrayed monkey was looking at , and to overtly shift attention to the same target . If cued by an alternative instruction , the same subjects exploited learned associations between portrait identities and specific target locations to shift attention while ignoring gaze . Rather than to engage in geometrical head gaze following , the experimental animals might have learned to associate the head orientation of the portrayed monkey with particular target positions , either defined in absolute or in relative terms .
The common focus of research is on basic metabolic and homeostatic neurobiological substrates. Here we identify a novel neural substrate for the control of learned aspects of feeding behavior . Pharmacological activation of ghrelin receptors in the ventral hippocampus (vHP ) potently stimulates feeding behavior by increasing both meal frequency and meal size . The vHP ghrelin-mediated hyperphagia is dependent on the downstream orexin-1 receptor ( Ox1R ) signaling in the lateral hypothalamic area ( LHA ) . The vHP to LHA pathway is characterized by an exclusively ipsilateral input from the vHP to the LHA . These findings provide novel insights into the neural circuitry regulating appetite and the role of ghrelin in stimulating feeding behavior .
Life underground is characterized by unique demands that have led subterranean species to evolve specialized traits . We have used a genome-wide approach to study evolutionary rates in subterranean mammals , focusing on eye-related genes . We found that eye-specific genes are highly enriched for convergent acceleration in subterranean species , and that eye-specific regulatory elements are also under accelerated evolution . We identified several eye-specific transcriptional enhancers , some of which are associated with eye-related diseases . Our results demonstrate that subterranean mammals have evolved eye-specific regulatory elements that are under relaxed constraint in the subterranean environment .
AKAP79 is a prototypic anchoring protein that tethers phosphatase-2B ( PP2B ) to membranes . Here , we use negative-stain electron microscopy ( EM ) and chemical cross-linking to define the structural features of AKAP79-PP2B complexes . We show that intrinsic disorder within AKAP79-PP2B assemblies permits a range of extended configurations that are condensed into globular signaling complexes following activation with calcium . Cellular validation for this model is provided by live-cell imaging with fluorescent activity-sensors . Our findings reveal that intrinsic disorder within AKAP79-PP2B complexes confers a dynamic range of enzyme action .
The adult human brain has been thought to be unable to reorganise following sensory deprivation . However , this study demonstrates that adaptive patterns of limb usage drive cortical plasticity in individuals with unilateral hand absence . 1-Handed individuals with congenital or acquired hand absence were assessed for their daily usage strategies , and for the first time , their limb usage was quantified using accelerometers . Functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI ) and diffusion tensor imaging ( DTI ) were used to investigate patterns of cortical reorganisation in the deprived cortex . Results show that individuals who rely more on their intact hands show increased limb-representation in the deprived cortex , and that this is independent of age at deprivation . These findings challenge previous assumptions about reorganisation after sensory deprivation in adults .
The position of the mitotic spindle determines daughter cell size and location . In the nematode C . elegans , the spindle positioning complex consists of Gα subunits GOA-1 and GPA-16 , GPR-1/2Pins/LGN , and the coiled-coil protein LIN-5 . Here , we use optogenetics to systematically investigate the individual contributions of the spindle positioning components in vivo . We show that the Gα subunits are not required for pulling-force generation , and that Gα∙GDP–GPR-1/2Pins/LGN acts as a membrane anchor . Most importantly , we show that LIN-5 is required for dynein-dependent cortical pulling forces . Finally , we demonstrate that cortical recruitment of LIN-5 can manipulate the spindle position and orientation , and thereby the outcome of cell division .
Prolonged monocular deprivation in mice causes long-lasting suppression of visual responses , even after normal vision is restored . Here , we report that visual stimulation during locomotion enhances recovery of visual responses in mice with long-term monocular deprivation . This effect is specific to the particular visual stimuli experienced during running and is accompanied by a rapid and complete recovery of closed-eye responses , suggesting that the enhanced recovery is facilitated only in the neural circuits that are activated during running .
The leaf-cutting ants Acromyrmex and their fungal cultivars form a symbiotic partnership that is one of the most efficient biomass degradation systems known to date . While the ants provide the fungi with carbohydrates and proteins , the fungi provide the ants with a substrate that they process into nutrients . Here we report the first complete proteome of the fecal fluid of the leaf-cutting ant Acromyrmex echinatior . We found that the proteome consists of 174 proteins , of which 85% originate from the fungus and 15% from the ant . We identified several proteins that are known to be involved in oxidoreductases and iron metabolism , which may allow the fungal cultivar to produce hydroxyl radicals that can break down plant cell wall polymers . We further show that the fungal cultivar has evolved a fecal fluid enzyme that reduces iron from the leaf fragments to make the Fenton reaction possible . This enzyme , glucose dehydrogenase , is encoded by the ant genome and is present in all colonies . We also show that the Fenton reaction is sustained by glucose dehydrogenase , which reduces iron back to ferric iron . We propose that the Fenton reaction is a standard procedure in this fungus-farming symbiosis to degrade plant cell walls and/or toxic secondary plant polymers meant to deter herbivores .
Mood and anxiety disorders are the most prevalent psychiatric conditions . Stress is a major environmental risk factor for mood and anxiety disorders . COX-2 is a bioactive lipid-mechanism-based target for the treatment of mood and anxiety disorders . We tested the effects of COX-2 inhibition on stress-induced anxiety-like behavior in mice . Systemic administration of COX-2 inhibitors ( LM-4131 , LMX , and Celecoxib ) reduced stress-induced anxiety-like behavior in mice . Moreover , LM-4131 reduced stress-induced anxiety-like behavior in the elevated-plus maze and tail suspension test . The anxiolytic-like effects of LM-4131 were mediated by small-conductance calcium-activated potassium ( SK ) channels and CB1 cannabinoid receptors . The SK channel activator 1-EBIO mimicked the effects of LM-4131 on anxiety-like behavior . Ex vivo whole-cell patch-clamp electrophysiological studies showed that LM-4131 reduced neuronal excitability in the basolateral amygdala ( BLA ) . These data suggest that COX-2 inhibition could be a novel treatment approach or augmentation strategy for stress-related psychiatric disorders .
Single-structure models derived from X-ray data have limitations in describing the inherent, functionally important dynamics of protein molecules . We introduce ensemble refinement , a method to overcome this limitation by partitioning global disorder into a translation-libration-screw ( TLS ) model . Ensemble refinement extracts dynamical details from X-ray data , providing a more comprehensive understanding of structure-dynamics-function relationships .
