The cerebellum is a well-known structure that is involved in learning and execution of accurate movements . However , most studies of movement sequences focus on single-component movements , and little is known about the cerebellar mechanisms of learning movement sequences . Here we demonstrate that the cerebellum can learn to chain together a sequence of inter-connected movement components by using feedback signals from one component to serve as a cue for the next component . In a behavioral paradigm we show that a cerebellar stimulus can be used to learn a sequence of eye movements , where the second eye movement is driven by the first movement component . We also show that the timing of the second eye movement is influenced by the timing of the first eye movement , and that the same Purkinje cells in the cerebellar cortex control both eye movements . Our results provide a general framework for how the cerebellum can learn to chain together a sequence of movements , and demonstrate that the cerebellum can use feedback signals from a movement to learn a subsequent movement component .
The mTORC2 complex is a key component of the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway and plays a role in cell growth and survival . Here we report the structure of human mTORC2 to 7 . 4 Å resolution . The core of the complex is a dimer of mTOR , Lst8 , and Rictor , which is stabilised by the accessory factors Protor-1 and SIN1 . The mTORC2 complex is C2-symmetric , with the mTOR dimer in the middle of a helical arrangement of the accessory factors , similar to that observed in mTORC1 . The C2 symmetry of mTORC2 is consistent with the mTORC2 structure reported at 7 . 9 Å resolution by Karuppasamy et al . , 2017 .
The spatial arrangement of numbers in the mental number line is a fundamental aspect of numerosity processing . Here we show that motion direction adapts numerosity , giving rise to a repulsive aftereffect . This effect is present even when the motion direction is orthogonal to the magnitude of the number , i . e . , large numbers are adapted with leftward motion , while small numbers are adapted with rightward motion . This indicates that numerosity co-opts circuits that originally process space , allowing for shared computations across domains .
Musashi-1 ( MSI1 ) is a RNA-binding protein that is required for proliferation of stem and progenitor cells in the central nervous system . MSI1 inhibition by fatty acids was previously unreported . We screened a library of fatty acids for inhibition of MSI1 binding to a consensus sequence , and found that oleic acid , but not elaidic acid , inhibited MSI1 RNA binding activity . We identified the fatty acid binding site and mode of inhibition using computational docking and molecular dynamics simulations . We also found that oleic acid inhibits MSI1 in a cell culture model of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells and that MSI1 regulates the expression of the enzyme stearoyl-CoA desaturase ( SCD ) , which produces oleic acid . Our results reveal a novel mechanism for MSI1 regulation by fatty acids and identify a novel regulatory target .
The strength of synaptic transmission is determined by the balance between the number of vesicles released and the number of vesicles replenished . Short term synaptic plasticity ( STP ) , which involves the release and replenishment of vesicles , is an important mechanism for learning and memory . We found that the Ca2+ sensor syt 7 regulates SV replenishment in hippocampal neurons , and that the Ca2+ sensor functions in a Ca2+-dependent pathway . A Ca2+-dependent pathway for SV replenishment was also observed in the presence of CaM antagonists . The results suggest that CaM and syt 7 cooperate to regulate Ca2+-dependent SV replenishment .
Stress is a major environmental risk factor for the development of mood and anxiety disorders . COX-2 inhibitors are known to attenuate stress-induced anxiety-like behavior in animal models , but little is known about the mechanisms by which COX-2 inhibition modulates behavior . Here we compare the effects of three COX-2 inhibitors , LM-4131 ( a novel selective COX-2 inhibitor ) , Lumiracoxib ( a traditional COX-2 inhibitor ) , and Celecoxib , in a novel , palatable food-motivated anxiety-like behavior assay , and in the elevated-plus maze ( EPM ) . Acute and subchronic COX-2 inhibition reduced stress-induced anxiety-like behavior in mice , and reduced expression of conditioned fear . These effects generalized to male and female mice of different ages , and were evident after repeated stress exposure . In addition , COX-2 inhibition did not affect locomotor activity , sucrose preference , or despair-like behavior . Furthermore , the effects of COX-2 inhibition on anxiety-like behavior were mimicked by direct augmentation of anandamide levels via FAAH inhibition , and were blocked by SK channel antagonism . Finally , ex vivo whole-cell patch-clamp recordings revealed that COX-2 inhibition decreased BLA neuronal excitability in stressed , but not control , mice . Taken together , our results support the therapeutic potential of COX-2 inhibition for the treatment of stress-related neuropsychiatric conditions .
Membrane proteins are essential for the proper functioning of biological membranes and are therefore targeted by a wide range of drugs and natural toxins . However , the stability and solubility of membrane proteins pose challenges in their purification , reconstitution and analysis . Here we describe a peptide-based method for reconstitution of membrane proteins into a detergent-free environment . The peptide NSPr ( Nter-FAEKFKEAVKDYFAKFWDPAAEKLKEAVKDYFAKLWD-Cter ) is designed to wrap around a membrane protein template , forming a peptidisc that can be easily isolated and purified . The peptidisc is stable and functional , allowing reconstitution of membrane proteins of different size , topology and complexity . The peptidisc can be easily prepared by rapid detergent removal methods , such as ‘in-gel’ , ‘on-column’ and ‘on-bead’ methods , which are more efficient and cost-effective compared to conventional detergent-based methods . The peptidisc is also stable at elevated temperatures , with an increased thermostability compared to nanodiscs . The peptidisc can be recycled by re-using the peptide , and the method does not require exogenous lipids . The peptidisc therefore represents a practical alternative to the current scaffold systems for membrane protein reconstitution .
Transcript errors refer to any inconsistencies between RNA transcripts and their corresponding genomic loci . Such errors can directly cause dysfunctions and indirectly induce various effects at the protein level . We applied a modified CirSeq approach to identify transcript errors in four bacterial species . A large number of transcript errors was detected , and transcript-error rates were revealed to be orders of magnitude higher than corresponding genetic mutation rates . The molecular spectra of transcript errors revealed a general C→U substitution bias , which is thought to be driven by post-transcriptional cytosine deaminations . Furthermore , an unexpectedly high G→A substitution rate was revealed in one species . A transition/transversion bias of genetic mutations has been widely observed in different species , but the molecular spectrum of transcript errors in prokaryotes remains limited . Our work demonstrates that the bias in molecular spectra of transcript errors can be influenced by both RNA polymerases and cellular rNTP concentrations . The spatial distribution of transcript errors on RNAs provides novel insights into the mechanism of RNA quality-control in prokaryotes .
Loss of a limb can have devastating impact on quality of life in individuals who are typically young , employed and otherwise healthy . However , how best to rehabilitate these individuals , and allow them to return to active and productive lifestyles , is unknown . Here , we test whether altered limb-use patterns influence cortical reorganisation in individuals with unilateral hand absence . We assess daily limb-use strategies in individuals with acquired and congenital hand absence , and show that these daily usage strategies are a powerful driver of plasticity in the deprived cortex . These findings shed new light on the extent of adult human brain plasticity and have implications for rehabilitation .
The role of bone marrow in bone elongation and haematopoiesis is still debated in the context of the evolution of the skeleton . Here , we investigate the early evolution of bone-marrow niches in several stem- and crown-batrachians , including the limbed stem tetrapods Acanthostega and Metoposaurus , the seymouriamorphs Seymouria and Discosauriscus , and the limbed stem amphibian Apateon . We show that the metaphyseal trabecular mesh is oriented longitudinally in all of these taxa . The bone marrow processes are present in Metoposaurus and Seymouria , but their microanatomy differs from that of extant amniotes . They open up into multilocular spaces separated by bony septa or directly into the medullary cavity of the shaft . We conclude that the migration of haematopoiesis into bone marrow was not an exaptation predating the water-to-land transition but rather occurred in a later stage in tetrapod evolution .
Long-term alcohol drinking and withdrawal can disrupt stress responses . Here , we test whether the BNST , a brain region implicated in alcohol and stress behaviors , is a critical molecular substrate for maladaptive stress responses during protracted alcohol abstinence . We show that dysregulation of cortical inputs to the BNST , specifically from the prefrontal cortex , underlies lasting behavioral changes to stressors after chronic alcohol drinking . In addition , BNST norBNI treatment during protracted abstinence reduced avoidance and increased burying behavior in mice that had consumed alcohol . These effects were specific to the stressor TMT , but not to the elevated plus maze . Further , electrophysiological recordings revealed increased glutamatergic transmission in BNSTPDYN neurons following TMT and alcohol exposure . These findings highlight a critical role for the BNST in mediating maladaptive stress responses after alcohol drinking .
Heat shock proteins are rapidly induced in response to stress and are important for protecting cells against protein damage . The rapid and synchronized induction of heat shock proteins is mediated by the heat shock factor 1 ( HSF1 ) and the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 1A ( eEF1A ) . We report that eEF1A1 is a key regulator of HSP70 gene expression and that it mediates HSP70 transcription upon stress . eEF1A1 localizes to the HSP70 transcriptional start site ( TS ) and interacts with the Mediator complex and RNA polymerase II ( RNAPII ) . Moreover , eEF1A1 interacts with HSP70 mRNA and enhances its stability . We also show that eEF1A1 is required for the export of HSP70 mRNA from the nucleus to the cytoplasm . These results suggest that eEF1A1 plays a key role in regulating HSP70 expression and that it is a critical factor in the cellular response to stress .
The phytohormone auxin directs many plant developmental processes . In flower primordium initiation , the transcription factor ARF MONOPTEROS ( MP ) is required for auxin-dependent cell fate reprogramming . Here we show that MP recruits chromatin remodeling complexes to its target loci to overcome compacted chromatin and unlock regulatory elements . In the absence of auxin , MP interacting Aux/IAA proteins prevent MP from recruiting chromatin remodeling complexes . Auxin-induced chromatin unlocking is essential for MP-dependent recruitment of chromatin remodeling complexes and for flower primordium initiation . Our study uncovers a rapid and precise chromatin state switch that underlies flower primordium initiation .
Deletions of a 2 . 5 Mb interval on human chromosome 7q22 are associated with myelodysplastic syndrome ( MDS ) and acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) . This interval contains three candidate tumor suppressor genes ( TSGs ) , and the 7q22 deletion is often associated with haploinsufficiency for these genes . We generated mice that carry a 2 . 5 Mb deletion of a human 7q22 segment syntenic to a TSG cluster and analyzed their hematopoietic phenotypes . The 7q22 deletion perturbs hematopoiesis , resulting in a myeloid lineage bias , impaired lymphoid repopulation , and a pronounced expansion of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells with age . These hematopoietic abnormalities support a role of 7q22 deletions in MDS pathogenesis .
The somatosensory nervous system is the major sensory system of the body . It consists of a diverse set of neurons that mediate different sensory modalities , such as heat , pain , itch , and touch . However , the molecular identity of these neurons has not been well-defined . Here we performed single cell transcriptomics analysis of three distinct somatosensory populations identified by surface marker staining . This analysis revealed a large degree of transcriptional heterogeneity among these populations . In addition , it identified a number of novel markers for distinct somatosensory neuron subtypes . We also found that single cell transcriptomics analysis of three populations of somatosensory neurons revealed distinct subgroups that were not captured by the presence or absence of a particular surface marker . These findings reveal a high degree of complexity in the somatosensory nervous system , and highlight the importance of molecular characterization of different somatosensory neuron subtypes .
Crossover recombination ( CO ) is a critical step in meiosis , which ensures that homologous chromosomes segregate independently . Here we identify four RING finger proteins that are required for CO formation in the nematode C . elegans . ZHP-1/2 , the two most highly conserved ZHP proteins , are required for CO designation , while ZHP-3/4 are required for CO maturation . We find that ZHP-1/2 , but not ZHP-3/4 , localize to the synaptonemal complex ( SC ) , a liquid-like , compartmentalized structure that forms in meiotic prophase . ZHP-1/2 are required for the asymmetric localization of the SC and the Polo-like kinase PLK-2 to the short arm of the bivalent . These activities are coupled to the asymmetric distribution of pro-crossover factors , including ZHP-3/4 , and to the spatial partitioning of cohesin complexes containing the meiosis-specific kleisin REC-8 . We propose that the ZHP circuit acts within the SC to coordinate CO designation and maturation , and to promote chromosome remodeling in response to CO formation .
Proteolysis and dephosphorylation are key processes in the regulation of mitotic exit . However , the relative contributions of these processes are not well understood . Here , we show that a single dephosphorylation event , the destruction of cyclin B1 , triggers a graded series of phospho-site dependent dephosphorylation events . Importantly , the kinetics of these dephosphorylation events are encoded into the system at the level of individual phospho-sites , providing a basis for the coordination of mitotic exit events .
The prefrontal cortex ( mPFC ) is essential for behavioral adaptation to stress . The Wolframin gene ( Wfs1 ) is a known genetic cause of major depressive disorder ( MDD ) , but its role in the mPFC is unknown . Here , we have identified a novel population of pyramidal cells in the medial prefrontal cortex that express Wfs1 . These cells are found in the superficial layer 2/3 of the cortex , and are selectively enriched in the Ntf3 bacTRAP line , which expresses the EGFP/L10a fusion protein for use in translational profiling studies . Wfs1 is selectively enriched in Ntf3 pyramidal cells in the medial PFC , and is required for normal function of the mPFC in response to stress . Mice carrying a conditional deletion of Wfs1 in the mPFC display enhanced sensitivity to stress-induced depressive behaviors . In addition , Wfs1-expressing pyramidal cells in the mPFC receive projections from multiple cortical and thalamic regions and from the amygdala , and are required for normal ER function in these cells . Our data suggest that normal function of Wfs1-expressing pyramidal cells in the mPFC is required to moderate depressive behaviors in response to stress .
Protein function depends on a complex interplay of conformational changes , conformational dynamics , and interactions with diverse molecular partners . Here we investigate three different ways to modulate protein function , using the chaperone Hsp90 as a model . The point mutation A577I destabilizes the open conformation , the cochaperone Aha1 increases the closed conformation and confines the nucleotide binding pocket , and macro-molecular crowding stabilizes the closed conformation . We find that the kinetic effect of the point mutation A577I is mostly due to a stiffening of the structure , whereas the effect of macro-molecular crowding is mainly due to a sterical confinement . The cochaperone Aha1 combines both mechanisms with additional specific rearrangements . Our findings demonstrate that conformational combinatorics plays an important role in protein regulation , and that non-specific effects of conformational confinement can have far-reaching thermodynamic , kinetic , and functional consequences .
How do cells uniquely polarize to form one bud at a time , while other cells form two or more buds at the same time ? One hypothesis proposes that clusters compete for a common pool of polarity factors . However , the mechanisms underlying this competition remain unclear . Here we show that slowing the exchange of key polarity factors between the cell interior and plasma membrane can extend the time necessary to resolve multi-cluster intermediates , allowing clusters to compete for a longer period of time . We also show that the presence of septin structures is unable to stabilize a cluster against competition , arguing against the 'stabilizer hypothesis' . Our findings reveal a mechanism of competition that can explain how yeast cells uniquely polarize .
Homologous recombination is a fundamental mechanism for repairing DNA damage . It involves RecA , a multi-subunit protein complex , mediating strand exchange between homologous DNA molecules . During strand exchange , RecA binds to one of the DNA molecules and then exchanges strands with the other homologous DNA molecule . A major challenge in homologous recombination is the rapid identification of homologous DNA sequences during strand exchange . We report the first example of a multi-protein complex bound to DNA that can slide along a second DNA strand during target search . We show that RecA filaments slide along DNA by sliding along the DNA strand . The sliding process is mediated by electrostatic interactions between the RecA filament and the DNA strand . We also show that homology search can occur during sliding and that homology recognition and base pairing are stochastic processes . Our results demonstrate that the RecA filament can rapidly search for homology by sliding along DNA .
M2-1 is a basic protein that is essential for transcription of full-length viral mRNAs in vivo , but is dispensable for virus replication in tissue culture . M2-1 is structurally similar to the zinc finger protein VP30 from filoviruses , and shares similar functions . Here , we report the crystal structures of HMPV M2-1 , revealing a tetrameric assembly that displays conformational dynamics . We demonstrate that M2-1 recognizes RNA through its zinc finger and core domain , and induces the closure of the core domain by RNA binding . We also show that M2-1 associates with the viral polymerase P and the nucleocapsid , forming a tight complex that prevents M2-1 aggregation in solution . Finally , we demonstrate that M2-1 recognition of RNA is coupled with concentration-dependent aggregation , indicating a role for M2-1 in transcription termination in vivo .
Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that perform diverse cellular functions such as degradation of macromolecules and recycling of cellular waste . Chloride ions are the most abundant , anionic , cationic , and polar solutes in living cells . Yet , the role of lysosomal chloride in cellular function is unknown . Here , we show that lysosomal chloride is critical for lysosome function in the genetic model organism Caenorhabditis elegans . We find that lysosomal chloride levels are higher than extracellular chloride levels in C . elegans . We show that lysosomal chloride levels are dramatically reduced in C . elegans mutants of genes that cause lysosomal storage diseases , such as osteopetrosis , Gaucher’s disease , and Niemann Pick A/B disease . In human cell culture models of these diseases , we find that lysosomal chloride is substantially depleted . We show that lysosomal chloride levels are a sensitive correlate of lysosomal function and lysosome morphology . We also show that lysosomal chloride regulates lysosomal Ca2+ levels and lysosomal enzyme activity . Our study reveals that lysosomal chloride is critical for lysosome function , and that lysosomal chloride levels are a sensitive correlate of lysosome function .
Gaze following is a fundamental component of social cognition . Yet , the spatial information provided by the direction of the other one's gaze is not easily accessible to the observer . To overcome this , we have to rely on additional information . In monkeys , head gaze following is a promising candidate . We here asked monkeys to use head gaze orientation to locate spatial targets . However , this strategy was not successful . Instead , the experimental animals relied on learned associations between the orientation of the head and the spatial target . We propose that the inability of monkeys to use head gaze following reflects a fundamental difference in the way the visual information is processed . In monkeys , the information about the orientation of the head is processed by the superior temporal sulcus , whereas in humans the pSTS is activated by eye gaze .
Monocular visual deprivation in early life causes amblyopia that persists into adulthood . We have found that locomotion enhances recovery of visual responses in the primary visual cortex of mice , which is almost to normal levels within a week . Intrinsic signal imaging and single-unit recording show that the recovery is specific to the particular visual stimuli presented during locomotion . Neither locomotion alone nor visual stimulation alone promotes recovery . These findings suggest that recovery is facilitated only in the neural circuits that are activated during running .
The leaf-cutting ants Acromyrmex and Atta are among the most spectacular functional herbivores in the animal kingdom , but little is known about the molecular mechanisms that sustain their mutualistic symbiosis with fungal cultivars . Here , we present a comprehensive proteome of fecal fluid from the leaf-cutting ant Acromyrmex echinatior and find evidence for the use of inorganic Fenton chemistry to break down plant cell walls . We find a large proportion of oxidoreductases in the fecal fluid , including several fungal enzymes that are known to produce hydrogen peroxide . We show that the ants have evolved a fecal fluid enzyme that reduces Fe3+ to Fe2+ , which is then used to sustain the Fenton reaction . We propose that this mechanism is maintained by the ant farming symbiosis because it allows the fungal cultivar to produce hydroxyl radicals while avoiding collateral damage to living tissues .
Greatwall ( GWL ) kinase is a key regulator of the mitotic process . It inhibits the activity of the phosphatase PP2AB55 through phosphorylation of its inhibitors ARPP19 and ENSA at mitotic entry . GWL overexpression is frequently found in human tumours . We show that GWL overexpression promotes cell transformation , proliferation , migration and invasion in vitro and tumour growth in vivo . Moreover , GWL overexpression is sufficient to induce cell transformation in immortalised cell lines and in primary human fibroblasts . These results suggest that GWL could be used as a marker of oncogenic transformation .
The increasing incidence of drug-resistant tuberculosis is a major threat to global health care . In addition to the development of ‘classical’ drugs targeting key factors in bacterial physiology , host-directed therapy ( HDT ) has emerged as an approach that could be used in adjunct with existing or future antibiotics . Here , we investigated the effects of the new anti-TB drug , bedaquiline ( BDQ ) , on human macrophages . We found that BDQ modulates macrophage innate defense mechanisms , including induction of antimicrobial effectors such as nitric oxide , phagosome-lysosome fusion , and autophagy . BDQ also potentiates the activity of other anti-TB drugs , independently of its bactericidal activity on MTB . Collectively , our results open new avenues for downstream evaluation of the potential use of BDQ as a potent drug in HDT .
The Hippo pathway regulates organ size control and tissue homeostasis . We utilized a conditional mouse model to show that the Hippo pathway is required for lung growth and patterning . We found that YAP ( Yes-associated protein ) is active throughout the mouse lung epithelium during development . Conditional inactivation of YAP in the lung epithelium led to localized lung cysts . In the absence of YAP , loss of cell-type specification was observed in regions where defective branching occurred . YAP regulates the expression of multiple genes that control cell proliferation and mechanical force production . Thus , we propose that Hippo signaling controls the growth and patterning of the lung by regulating local epithelial cell properties .
The bacterial injectisome is a nanomachine that spans the inner and outer membranes of the bacterial cell and translocates effector proteins into the host cells . We report here the first visualization of injectisomes from Yersinia enterocolitica and Shigella flexneri in intact bacterial cells , and present a cryo-electron microscopy structure of the Y . enterocolitica injectisome at 4 nm resolution . In situ cryo-electron tomography revealed that the basal body of the injectisome is elastic in the native context , resulting in variations in length between the intermembrane distances . We modeled the YscDJ ring at the inner membrane of Y . enterocolitica , using cryo-electron microscopy , X-ray crystallography and molecular modeling and simulations . Our model suggests that the elasticity of the basal body is generated by the interaction of the secretin YscC with the periplasmic domains of YscD .
FER ( fer ) is an Arabidopsis receptor kinase involved in growth and reproduction . It is also involved in defense responses . FER interacts with ROP/ROP GTPases and RALF1 , an extracellular signaling molecule . Here , we show that FER also interacts with GPI-anchored LLG1 and LRE proteins . FER localizes to the cell membrane and interacts with LLG1 and LRE in the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) . LLG1 and LRE are required for FER localization to the cell membrane and for FER to interact with ROP/ROP GTPases and RALF1 . Thus , FER interacts with LLG1 and LRE to mediate cell surface signaling activity , and they may also act as co-receptors for other signaling molecules .
The fundamental role of chromatin in the regulation of gene expression is ancient , as evidenced by the conservation of the nucleosome across all eukaryotes . Here we demonstrate that the architecture of chromatin and the occupancy of its nucleosomes along transcription units are conserved between archaea and eukaryotes . We constructed a nucleosome occupancy map of the halophilic archaeon Haloferax volcanii , a member of the phylum euryarchaeota . We show that the nucleosomal protected fragments and nucleosome-depleted regions are shorter in archaea than in eukaryotes . Our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that the fundamental role of chromatin in the regulation of gene expression is ancient .
Nutrient availability and demand affects lifespan in many organisms , including insects . Drosophila melanogaster has been used to investigate the mechanisms of aging , but the role of nutrient valuation in this process has been largely unexplored . Here we show that serotonin signaling in the central nervous system ( CNS ) is required for protein preference and that this signaling modulates lifespan . We found that serotonin signaling is required for protein preference in starved flies and that JhI-21 , a homolog of the mammalian serotonin transporter SLC7A5 , is required for serotonin production following protein ingestion . Serotonin signaling modulates lifespan in a complex nutrient environment where animals are free to choose their food . Our findings demonstrate that the macronutrient valuation process itself , in the context of perceived availability and demand , can influence aging independently of feeding or total nutrient intake .
Transcription termination is essential for the proper regulation of gene expression . In clear cell renal cell carcinoma ( ccRCC ) , a tumor that harbors the most frequent genetic alterations , we discovered that transcription read-through is prevalent and correlates with poorer survival rates . We show that mutations in SETD2 , a histone-modifying enzyme involved in transcription termination , promote transcription read-through . Moreover , we found that transcription read-through interferes with the expression of downstream genes . We also identified a novel chimera , the CTSC-RAB38 , generated from intergenic splicing following transcription read-through . Our findings disclose the prognostic power of transcription read-through and unveil a new mechanism of aberrant gene expression in ccRCC .
Glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored high density lipoprotein-binding protein 1 ( GPIHBP1 ) is a secreted glycoprotein that is essential for lipolysis of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins ( TRLs ) along the capillary lumen . The LPL•GPIHBP1 interaction is a critical step in the metabolism of TRLs in the bloodstream . However , the molecular mechanism by which LPL is released from the capillary lumen and delivered to the luminal surface of capillary endothelial cells remains unknown . Here , we report the first structural and biophysical studies of the LPL•GPIHBP1 interaction . We show that GPIHBP1’s acidic domain is intrinsically disordered and that it plays a major role in the association rate constant of LPL with GPIHBP1 . In addition , we find that GPIHBP1 inhibits the spontaneous unfolding of LPL and that the acidic domain of GPIHBP1 protects LPL from unfolding . These findings provide new insights into the mechanism of LPL•GPIHBP1 interactions and suggest that GPIHBP1 plays an important role in the mobilization of TRLs within the interstitial spaces .
The transcription of most genes in Escherichia coli is regulated by the ppGpp-DksA pathway , which induces changes in the structure of the RNAP complex . The ppGpp/DksA-regulated RNAP complex has been shown to bind to the transcriptional activator TraR , but the mechanisms of TraR-regulated transcription remain unclear . Here we present a structural and functional analysis of the Eco RNAP-TraR complex , revealing how TraR alters the structure of the RNAP complex to effect transcriptional activation and inhibition . We show that TraR binds to the RNAP in two distinct conformational states , one that promotes transcription and another that inhibits transcription . The mechanism of transcriptional activation involves the formation of a novel conformational state of the RNAP , in which the β’-subunit is rotated to form a stable complex with TraR and the β-Si1-domain of β’-Si1 is displaced from the RNAP channel . In contrast , inhibition involves the formation of an alternative conformational state of the RNAP in which the β’-Si1-domain is stabilized in the RNAP channel . Our results suggest that the mechanism of TraR-regulated transcription is based on the formation of a TraR-RNAP complex that is different from the wild-type RNAP complex .
Conditioned feeding behavior is a learned behavior that is promoted by external or internal cues that have the capacity to trigger feeding behavior . The neurotransmitter ghrelin has been implicated in the control of learned feeding behavior , yet the neural substrate of ghrelin-mediated feeding behavior remains unexplored . Here we show that vagal hypophysopha ( vHP ) ghrelin signaling is required for conditioned feeding behavior in rats . Following meal entrainment , vHP ghrelin signaling is required for conditioned feeding behavior , and this requirement is mediated by downstream activation of the orexin-1 receptor ( Ox1R ) . These findings suggest that vHP ghrelin signaling to the dorsal perifornical lateral hypothalamus ( dpLHA ) is a novel neural substrate for learned feeding behavior .
Dengue is a major public health burden in the Pacific islands . The 2013/14 dengue outbreak in Fiji , which resulted in 25 , 000 reported cases , was the largest ever recorded in the region . We used a serological survey and surveillance data to investigate the dynamics of the outbreak in Central Division , Fiji , and used a Bayesian approach to fit a transmission dynamic model to both serological and surveillance data . We found that infection risk was higher in older age groups , and that infection risk was higher in urban and peri-urban communities . We also found that there was little evidence of spatial heterogeneity in seroconversion . Our model suggested that an additional decline in transmission in March 2014 , which coincided with a nationwide vector clean-up campaign , could better capture the observed patterns in serological and surveillance data . This study demonstrates the potential of combining serological surveys and surveillance data to understand dengue transmission dynamics and evaluate the effectiveness of control measures .
Trypanosomes lack glutathione peroxidases , glutathione reductases and thioredoxin reductase . However , they harbor a trypanothione-based reducing system that is confined to the cytosol and the mitochondrial matrix . Here we show that the parasites express a novel biosensor based on the trypanothione oxidoreductase Tpx and the glutathione reductase hGrx1 . The probe was fused to the redox sensor roGFP2 and to hGrx1-roGFP2 . In the cytosol , the sensors equilibrated with the trypanothione redox couple . In the mitochondrion , the mitochondrial oxidoreductase mPrx was the major reductase for the trypanothione pool . Depletion of mPrx resulted in a dramatic increase in the cytosolic trypanothione pool and in a diminished ability to cope with exogenous oxidants . The data strongly suggest that the mitochondrion harbors a trypanothione-based thiol metabolism .
Paget’s disease of bone ( PDB ) is a common bone disorder with a strong genetic component . Environmental triggers are thought to be involved in its pathogenesis . To gain insights into the role of epigenetic mechanisms in PDB , we performed genome-wide differential methylation analysis of peripheral blood from 253 PDB patients and 280 controls . Meta-analysis of the differentially methylated sites ( DMS ) revealed 14 DMS with false discovery rate ( FDR ) < 0 . 05 . Meta-analysis of the differentially methylated regions ( DMR ) revealed 111 DMR with FDR < 0 . 05 . The results were replicated in an independent set of 116 cases and 130 controls ( cross-validation set ) . The differentially methylated sites were annotated to genes with functional relevance to PDB , including bone-related functions such as osteoclast differentiation . The findings of this study suggest that epigenetic markers may be of diagnostic value in PDB .
The development and maintenance of hematopoietic stem cells ( HSCs ) are poorly understood . Here we show that HSCs reside in the early first instar larval lymph gland of Drosophila and are characterized by the presence of Notch and BMP signaling . Lineage tracing and genetic ablation experiments reveal that the Notch expressing cells are indeed multi-potent and give rise to progenitors and differentiated hemocytes . The Notch positive cells are maintained by Dpp signaling from the hematopoietic niche . We further show that the Notch expressing cells are transient and undergo one cell division before differentiating into progenitors . This study provides a new model for the study of hematopoietic stem cells and their maintenance .
Alveolar formation is a complex process that involves coordinated morphogenesis of alveolar type I and type II cells and fibroblasts/myofibroblasts . However , the molecular mechanisms that control this process remain unclear . We have identified a novel signaling pathway in which a Wnt5a–Ror2–Vangl2 axis controls alveolar formation in mice . This pathway controls PDGF ligand secretion from alveolar cells and fibroblasts/myofibroblasts , which are critical for alveolar formation . Furthermore , we show that PCP signaling in alveolar cells modulates the actomyosin cytoskeleton and modifies cell shape change and migration of alveolar cells . Our results reveal a new role of PCP signaling in tissue patterning .
Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases ( aaRSs ) are responsible for the efficient synthesis of amino acids in the cell . The ability of these enzymes to discriminate between the correct and incorrect amino acid substrates is essential for maintaining fidelity of protein synthesis . Escherichia coli PheRS is one of the most highly edited aaRSs and is required for the efficient synthesis of near-cognate amino acids . Here we show that PheRS editing is required for the efficient synthesis of m-Tyr at Phe codons , and that this editing activity affords E . coli protection against the incorporation of this non-proteinogenic amino acid into the proteome .
In many organisms , the extracellular matrix ( ECM ) plays a key role in the physiology of the organ . However , the molecular mechanisms that underlie the formation of the ECM are poorly understood . Here we report that in the Drosophila trachea , the chitinous ECM is not only essential for the formation of the tracheal tube but also plays a key role in the proper formation of the actin rings that prefigure the chitinous ECM . We show that tracheal actin rings are required for the formation of taenidial folds , a chitinous structure that lines the lumen of the trachea . In addition , we demonstrate that the chitinous ECM is also required for the maintenance of tracheal actin ring organisation and that the feedback mechanism of the chitinous ECM is mediated by the Src42A kinase . These results indicate that the chitinous ECM plays a key role in tracheal tube formation and in the proper formation of the actin rings that prefigure the chitinous ECM .
The neurophysiological mechanisms that enable hierarchical decision-making are poorly understood . We trained two monkeys to perform a hierarchical curve-tracing task , in which evidence accumulated to a bound at each decision , and recorded neuronal activity in the visual cortex . We demonstrated that the monkeys’ decisions were mainly influenced by the earliest luminance samples , and that evidence integration for the L1 ( level 1 ) decision preceded evidence integration for the L2 ( level 2 ) decision . Hyafil and Moreno-Bote criticized our conclusions , arguing that flat models with a single accumulator per motor action can account for the data . We reanalyzed the data and found that the model of Hyafil and Moreno-Bote failed to account for the interactions between decisions . We also found that flat models are not compatible with a serial decision-making process . We conclude that hierarchical decision-making is a flexible process in which evidence can be integrated by separate accumulators , allowing subjects to adapt their strategy to the task at hand .
Humans rapidly learn the reward probability associated with new stimuli . However , current models of learning propose that this is a gradual process , and even when combined with powerful function approximation methods , they exhibit limited generalization beyond their training domain . Here , we replicate previous findings that neural signals evoked by numbers vary continuously with numerical distance , and we show that these signals are shared with the reward probabilities of novel stimuli ( ‘bandits’ ) . We find that the neural code for magnitude is shared across both domains , and that the cross-validation effect is robust to different analyses . We propose that the neural code for magnitude forms a conceptual basis set or ‘scaffold’ for learning new information , such as the reward probabilities associated with novel stimuli .
Salmonella pathogenicity island 2 ( SPI-2 ) genes are activated in the Salmonella SCV , which is the Salmonella-containing vacuole ( SCV ) in the host . However , how this activation is triggered by acid pH remains unclear . We used super-resolution microscopy to determine the role of acid pH in SPI-2 gene activation and found that acid pH increased the levels of SsrA and SsrB , the main regulators of SPI-2 gene expression . SsrB binding to DNA was significantly increased in acid pH , and SsrB levels were higher and showed larger intercellular variability compared to neutral pH . Using single-molecule counting and super-resolution microscopy , we demonstrate that acid pH increases SsrB binding to DNA , and this is not dependent on phosphorylation .
The Ras oncogene is the most frequently mutated gene in human cancers . Despite the development of inhibitors of Ras downstream pathways , the Ras-dependent molecular mechanisms underlying its invasive properties remain elusive . We exploited the optogenetics technology to selectively activate Ras-dependent RalB activation and to study its direct consequences on cell behavior . We found that RalB activation stimulates cell edge dynamics , leading to protrusions formation . Importantly , RalB is instructive in promoting cell invasion , independently of MAPK and PI3K pathways . We also found that RalB is overexpressed in human breast cancers and that its expression increases with disease progression . Our results suggest that the pharmacological inhibition of the Ras-RalB-exocyst-WRC pathway holds promises as anticancer strategy .
Actin filaments are dynamic structures that are involved in many cellular processes . Actin filament elongation is thought to be regulated by the binding of side-binding proteins . However , the molecular basis of actin filament elongation is not well understood . Here , we show that the elongation kinetics of actin filaments are altered by the binding of several side-binding proteins . We show that filament elongation kinetics are modulated by the binding of filamin , α-actinin , NEM-myosin , and VASP . These proteins alter the elongation velocity and the pausing behavior of actin filaments and also alter the filament persistence length . These results suggest that the asymmetry of actin filament elongation may be a response to the binding of various proteins .
Transcription is the first step of gene expression , and is a highly dynamic process . Transcription is a multi-step process , in which an RNA polymerase binds to a DNA template , searches for the promoter , and then elongates the RNA transcript . The dynamics of these steps are not well understood , largely because the process is too slow to be measured in real-time . Here we present a method to measure transcription in real-time at the single-molecule level , by using fluorescent probes that can detect nascent RNA transcripts at sub-second time resolution . We used the prototypical bacteriophage T7 RNA polymerase as a model system , and found that the method can detect real-time nascent RNA transcripts at sub-second time resolution . We also used the method to dissect the full transcription cycle of T7 RNA polymerase , and obtained kinetic estimates of promoter search , promoter binding , promoter escape , elongation , and termination .
Histone K-to-M mutations are associated with distinct types of cancers . However , the molecular mechanism by which these mutations block histone methylation is not well understood . Here , we establish a simple model of histone K-to-M mutations in a much simpler organism , fission yeast , which contains only three histone H3 genes and a single H3K9 methyltransferase Clr4 . We found that cells containing one copy of mutant H3K9M completely abolished H3K9me3 on the two other wild copies of histone H3 across the entire genome . The formation of heterochromatin is divided into two distinct steps: initiation and spreading . We found that Clr4 is trapped at heterochromatin nucleation centers in cells containing H3K9M . The fact that H3K9M enhances the interaction between the SET domain of Clr4 and H3 tail , and that compromising such interaction alleviates the trapping of Clr4 by H3K9M to allow heterochromatin assembly suggest that the trapping of Clr4 is mediated by a direct interaction between H3K9M and the Clr4 SET domain .
Transcriptional regulation by promoter-proximal pausing Pol II is well established , but the mechanism remains elusive . Here , we show that JMJD6 , a highly conserved Jumonji domain containing protein , specifically cleaves the 7SK snRNP complex’s MePCE . JMJD6 cleaves MePCE at the R171 site , and this cleavage leads to the release of P-TEFb ( containing CDK9 ) . We propose that JMJD6 is the direct disruptor of 7SK snRNP complex , which in turn triggers the phosphorylation of Ser2-CTD of Pol II . We also show that JMJD6 is a direct protease of MePCE . These discoveries provide a novel transcription regulation pathway for genes regulated by promoter-proximal pausing Pol II .
During meiosis , homologous recombination is required for proper pairing of chromosomes and synapsis . One key protein , PRDM9 , is required for both DSB positioning and synapsis . Here , we show that PRDM9 recruits ZCWPW1 to its binding sites , and that ZCWPW1 is required for PRDM9 to aid DSB repair . ZCWPW1 is co-evolving with PRDM9 across species , and co-expression analyses show that ZCWPW1 is co-expressed with PRDM9 in species where PRDM9 possesses a SET domain predicted to retain catalytic activity for H3K4me3/H3K36me3 . In a Zcwpw1 knockout mouse , PRDM9 recruits ZCWPW1 to sites bound by PRDM9 , but ZCWPW1 is not required for DSB positioning . However , DSBs are not repaired at these sites , and synapsis is impaired . We find that ZCWPW1 is strongly enriched at PRDM9-bound sites , and that this recruitment depends on the presence of H3K4me3 and H3K36me3 . We conclude that ZCWPW1 is a novel PRDM9-recruited protein , required for PRDM9’s role in synapsis .
The X chromosome is silenced by the X-inactive specific transcript ( Xist ) in females and by Xist and other RNA-binding proteins in males . Xist contains an A-repeat sequence that is derived from an ancient retroviral insertion . We show that Spen , a highly conserved and pleiotropic RNA-binding protein , binds to and regulates specific classes of retroviral insertion sequences ( ERVK ) in mouse embryonic stem cells . Spen represses these ERVK loci through direct binding to their RNA transcripts and subsequent recruitment of chromatin silencing machinery . In the absence of Spen , these ERVK elements are derepressed , demonstrating that Spen recognizes and binds to ERVK RNAs in vivo . These results demonstrate a mechanism for the evolution of protein-binding domains within noncoding RNAs and provide insight into how Xist evolved to regulate X-chromosome dosage compensation .
In T cells , immune synapses form between the immune cell and its target antigen-presenting cell . Centrosome polarization is a crucial step in this process , and it is driven by dynein-mediated transport of the centrosome toward the synapse . Here , we show that kinesin-4 family member KIF21B is a dedicated regulator of microtubule ( MT ) organization and dynamics in T cells . We found that KIF21B knockout cells exhibit defects in immunological synapse formation , particularly in their ability to polarize their centrosome toward the synapse . We further show that KIF21B acts as a MT regulator that inhibits MT growth and induces MT pausing and catastrophes . These data suggest that KIF21B acts as a regulator of MT organization and dynamics and that this activity is important for efficient centrosome translocation in T cells .
Mating can have detrimental effects on the health of individuals , particularly in hermaphroditic species . Here we show that brief sexual interactions with males do not shorten the lifespan of young hermaphrodites in C . elegans , and that this effect is due to the presence of self-sperm . Self-sperm act through a sperm-sensing pathway to protect the soma from the negative impact of sexual interactions . The presence of self-sperm in hermaphrodites is conserved in other hermaphroditic species , suggesting that the mechanism of protection may be evolutionarily important to allow hermaphrodites to maximize their reproductive success by fertilizing their eggs through self-fertilization and mating with another male later in life .
Despite the wealth of knowledge on nitrogen metabolism in M . tuberculosis , the precise role of nitrogen in this pathogen is unknown . Here , we show that M . tuberculosis can take up and metabolise a number of nitrogen sources . We demonstrate that M . tuberculosis can utilise host amino acids as nitrogen sources , and that amino acids are more efficient nitrogen sources than NH4+ . Moreover , we demonstrate that M . tuberculosis metabolic network is highly evolved to use very well a number of nitrogen sources , despite M . tuberculosis ability to biosynthesise all amino acids . Finally , we show that the nitrogen metabolic network is highly compartmentalised , with different nitrogen atoms being utilised by different enzymes .
Hypoxia-inducible factor ( HIF ) is a transcription factor that plays a critical role in coordinating the cellular response to hypoxia . HIFα proteins are the most studied HIF proteins and are known to be involved in the regulation of cellular metabolism , angiogenesis , and tumorigenesis . However , the molecular mechanisms underlying the non-hypoxic roles of HIFα are not well understood . Here we show that a novel spliced form of zebrafish HIF-3α , Hif-3α2 , is an oxygen-independent transcription factor that regulates the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway . Hif-3α2 binds to β-catenin and destabilizes the active β-catenin complex through a mechanism that is independent of GSKβ/β-TrCP-mediated degradation . Overexpression of Hif-3α2 inhibits Wnt/β-catenin signaling and impairs Kupffer's vesicle ( KV ) development in zebrafish embryos . Genetic deletion of Hif-3α2 increases embryo mortality and transient Wnt/β-catenin signaling phenotype in zebrafish embryos . Our results suggest that Hif-3α2 is a negative regulator of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway .
How stem cells exit their niches to differentiate remains poorly understood . We report that somatic gonad sheath cells ( Sh1 ) in the C . elegans germ line stem cell niche extend over germ cells in the progenitor zone , and that these processes promote germ cell proliferation . Sh1 contact with distal germ cells is required for germ cell proliferation , and Sh1 growth over a germ cell is sufficient to cause its differentiation . These results reveal a new mechanism for germ cell exit from the niche and suggest that the somatic gonad sheath is an overlooked regulator of germ cell proliferation and differentiation .
The behavior of biological macromolecules in crowded cellular environments is poorly understood due to the difficulty of measuring and modeling the interactions of macromolecules with each other and with the cellular environment . Here we use all-atom molecular dynamics simulations to describe the interactions of macromolecules with each other and with the cellular environment in a comprehensive cytoplasmic model . We find that macromolecules are significantly more compact and that weak interactions between proteins and metabolites cause structural changes that lead to native state perturbations . Metabolites bind to macromolecules non-specifically and interact with the cellular environment in a way that reduces the effective concentration of metabolites and alters protein-ligand interactions . Our simulations provide a detailed picture of the effects of the cellular environment on the behavior of macromolecules .
Hemagglutinin ( HA ) of influenza virus is a membrane-inserted fusion peptide that induces lipid mixing between two membranes . The HA structure is thought to consist of an extended , membrane-inserted conformation followed by a rapid , cooperative transition to a fusion pore . We show that the extended conformation is long-lived and that it results from the coordinated action of several HA trimers . We attribute the long lifetime of the extended intermediate to the requirement that the fusion peptides of three or four neighboring HA trimers must independently release from their pre-fusion pockets and insert into the target membrane before fusion can occur .
The neural circuit is the fundamental unit of cognition and behavior . Although the circuit architecture has been described , it remains unclear how connectivity and synaptic properties vary across the brain . We recorded synaptic inputs onto a large number of excitatory neurons in adult mouse and human cortex . We found that excitatory neurons in the mouse cortex have sparse recurrent connections , with a low rate of connectivity among pyramidal neurons . We also observed recurrent connections in human cortex , with a higher rate of connectivity than in mouse cortex . We further characterized the connectivity and short-term synaptic dynamics in mouse and human cortex . In mouse , we found that recurrent connectivity was sparse and that short-term synaptic dynamics were dominated by depression . In human cortex , we observed more frequent facilitation in some subtypes of pyramidal neurons . Our results demonstrate that connectivity and short-term dynamics are highly variable across the cortex and highlight the need for a comprehensive description of the cortical circuit .
Aggression is a fundamental social behavior that is conserved across phylogeny . It is poorly understood , however , how the neural circuits that control aggression are organized . In Drosophila , aggression is promoted by a subset of male-specific , sexually dimorphic , FruM-expressing neurons in the medial hypothalamus . Here , we show that these neurons are also necessary to promote wing extension , a behavior that is linked to aggression . We demonstrate that persistent aggression can be triggered by a single episode of transient photoactivation of this population of neurons , and that this persistent aggression can endure for at least 10 min in the absence of continued photostimulation . These data indicate that the persistent aggression induced by transient photoactivation is an intrinsic , fly-intrinsic property , and not simply perpetuated by iterative cycles of reciprocal attack .
Recombination is a key mechanism for generating genetic diversity . In sexually reproducing organisms , it is thought to be a major factor for generating new allele combinations . In contrast , in sexually reproducing plants , meiotic recombination is considered to be a minor factor . Here , we investigate the role of meiotic recombination in the genome of the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana . We generated 20 recombinant tetrads and 10 doubled haploid ( DH ) offspring , which were screened for gene conversions . We observed 1 , 359 COs and 2 , 477 NCOs . Short read-based analysis revealed that NCOs are overrepresented in regions that are free of nucleosomes . We found that recombination sites are enriched for a palindromic GAA/CTT microsatellite motif and a poly-A homopolymer motif . We also found that the enrichment of recombination sites is associated with the absence of nucleosomes . We conclude that meiotic recombination in A . thaliana is biased towards open chromatin and that gene conversions are associated with the formation of new allelic variants of genes .
Muscle fatigue can occur during sports , performing arts , and rehabilitation programs . While fatigue degrades motor performance , its effect on motor learning is largely unknown . We tested whether fatigue has a detrimental effect on learning of a force-control demanding , isometric pinch task in healthy individuals . We found that fatigue impaired skill learning , but not performance . However , when fatigued participants were given additional training without fatigue , they were able to catch up to the skill level of non-fatigued controls . We also found that disruptive rTMS to the motor cortex alleviated the detrimental effects of fatigue on skill learning . These results demonstrate that fatigue has a lasting negative effect on motor learning .
DNA repair is an essential process conserved throughout evolution and commonly disrupted in tumor cells ( Jeggo et al . , 2016 ) . Many cancer treatments , including poly ( ADP ribose ) polymerase ( PARP ) inhibitors ( PARPi ) , target DNA repair pathways to kill rapidly dividing , repair-deficient cells ( Farmer et al . , 2005; Fojo and Bates , 2013; Lord et al . , 2015; Mateo et al . , 2015 ) . 5’ end resection , which generates tracts of single-strand DNA ( ssDNA ) at DNA double-strand break ( DSB ) ends dictates repair pathway choice: blocking resection promotes canonical non-homologous end joining ( typically in G1 ) , while initiating resection commits a DSB to repair by homologous recombination ( HR ) , usually in S/G2 ( Chapman et al . , 2012; Hustedt and Durocher , 2016; Symington , 2016 ) . The resection machinery is tightly controlled at both the step of resection initiation ( involving Ctp1/Sae2/CtIP and the MRN/X complex ) and during long-range resection , which is mediated by two parallel pathways catalyzed by either the exonuclease Exo1 or the combination of a RecQ helicase and Dna2 ( Chen et al . , 2012; Croteau et al . , 2014; Nimonkar et al . , 2011; Tkáč et al . , 2016; Zimmermann et al . , 2013 ) . Additional accessory factors play key roles as modulators of resection; for example , loss of Rev7/MAD2L2/FANCV , a small , multifunctional HORMA domain protein ( Bluteau et al . , 2016; Rosenberg and Corbett , 2015 ) derepresses resection inhibition ( Boersma et al . , 2015; Xu et al . , 2015 ) , thereby allowing HR-deficient , Brca1–/–p53–/– cells to become resistant to PARPi . In human cells , Rev7 appears to act in concert with another inhibitor of resection , 53BP1 ( Chapman et al . , 2013; Ochs et al . , 2016; Zimmermann et al . , 2013 ) , loss of which is also sufficient to drive PARPi resistance ( Boersma et al . , 2015; Bouwman et al . , 2010; Jaspers et al . , 2013; Xu et al . , 2015 ) . Importantly , the mechanisms by which Rev7 and 53BP1 inhibit DSB end resection remain poorly understood . Here , we develop a single-cell microscopy-based assay capable of quantitatively measuring DSB end resection rates in the facile genetic model , S . pombe . Leveraging this assay , we find that Rev7 and the 53BP1 orthologue , Crb2 , specifically inhibit the RecQ-helicase-dependent long-range resection pathway . Moreover , through derepression of RecQ helicases , rev7∆ or crb2∆ cells can achieve very fast resection rates ( >20 kb/hr ) – approximately twice as fast as Exo1-dependent long-range resection . As BRCA1 activity has been tied to Exo1-dependent long-range resection ( Tomimatsu et al . , 2012 ) , our findings suggest that PARPi resistance can be driven by compensation through derepression of the RecQ-helicase-dependent resection pathway .
Conditionally-functional variation in the genome is a major force in evolution , but it is poorly understood . We examined natural variation in embryogenesis in Caenorhabditis elegans by perturbing 29 maternally-expressed genes in 55 wild strains . We observed dramatic variation in embryonic lethality , which was due to gene-specific variation . This variation was pervasive across all perturbations , and we estimated that it was due to many alleles at many loci . To evaluate the polygenicity of the variation , we performed genome-wide association mapping using the strain-by-gene interaction coefficients . We identified 19 genome-wide associations , implicating 19 loci , and we confirmed these associations with independent tests . The variation we observed was not due to differences in transcript levels , but rather to variation beyond the target gene . We also found that gene-specific variation was associated with germline RNAi sensitivity . We conclude that cryptic variation is pervasive in natural populations and that it may be important in shaping the genetic architecture of complex traits .
In many organisms , including the Gram-positive bacterium Bacillus subtilis , co-consumption of two preferred carbon sources leads to the production of high levels of acetate . In B . subtilis , this acetate is produced by a subset of cells that then reabsorb and replace it with a pH-neutral overflow metabolite . This switch is thought to occur in a single cell , but we show that in fact it occurs in two distinct metabolic states . We use fluorescence microscopy to show that acetate production is associated with the activation of the competence program , which is controlled by the master regulator comK . comK is known to activate the production of succinyl-CoA ligase ( sucC ) , a key enzyme in acetate production . We show that sucC expression is associated with competence , and that sucC+ cells exhibit altered growth rates and respond to medium composition . In addition , we find that sucC+ cells can switch into a second metabolic state , producing acetoin ( an overflow metabolite that can be used in later growth stages ) , and that this switch is also associated with competence . In addition , sucC+ cells can switch back to a sucC- state in later growth stages . In microfluidic experiments , we observe a systematic increase in sucC+ cells as acetate levels rise , and show that sucC+ cells switch into the acetoin producing alsS+ state in response to acetate toxicity . Our results provide evidence for the existence of metabolically specialized subpopulations of cells in B . subtilis .
DNA replication fork blockage at the RTS1 fork barrier in Schizosaccharomyces pombe can induce homologous recombination-dependent repair ( RDR ) . However , it is not clear whether this is an error-prone process and whether it is needed to maintain cell viability . Here we have used time-lapse microscopy to show that Rad52 is recruited to RTS1 within 7 . 4–12 . 4 min of fork blockage , and that this occurs even when fork convergence is imminent . We find that RDR is prone to template switching and that restarted forks are prone to recombination over distances of up to 12 . 4 kb from the point of initiation . This suggests that RDR is an error-prone process and that fork convergence does not normally induce RDR . Our data also suggest that RDR is not needed for cell viability .
Meiotic non-crossover ( NCO ) events are known to occur in mammals , but the extent to which they occur , and how they shape the genome , remain unquantified . We analyzed 34 three-generation Mexican American pedigrees using high-density SNP array data . We identified 103 NCO events , of which 102 were detected using standard ascertainment and one was detected using non-standard ascertainment . NCO events occur at a rate of 5 . 9 × 10−6 per bp per meiosis . We observed a sex-averaged rate of 5 . 7 × 10−6/bp/generation , which is similar to the rate of crossover events . Sex-averaged recombination rates were 10 . 7554/eLife . 04637 . 006 , which is a sex-averaged rate of recombination events . We observed GC-biased gene conversion in 68% of NCO sites , and no difference in the strength of GC-biased gene conversion across a range of recombination rates . The strength of GC-biased gene conversion was also estimated across recombination rate bins , and was consistent with previous studies . Finally , we identified complex resolutions of NCOs , with discontinuous NCO events occurring in some pedigrees .
The DNA-dependent protein kinase ( DNAPK ) complex XRCC4 and the XLF ( LIG4 )-XRCC4 heterodimer form filamentous structures that bridge broken DNA ends . These structures are thought to be instrumental in promoting ligation , but their function in repairing chromosomal DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) is not clear . Here , we show that XRCC4 and XLF C-terminal tails play a role in the formation and stability of XRCC4-XLF filaments , and that phospho-mimicking mutations in the disordered tails abate DNA bridging . We also demonstrate that XRCC4 and XLF phospho-mimicking mutants are defective in end-joining of chromosomal DNA DSBs , indicating that DNA bridging is required for accurate repair of certain chromosomal DSBs .
The p21 protein is a negative regulator of the cell cycle that is induced by DNA damage . Here we show that p21 is also required at every S phase to regulate the DNA replication program . When p21 is depleted , replication is impaired and leads to genomic instability . The DNA replication defects caused by p21 depletion are rescued by the recruitment of Pol κ to replication factories . Such function is dependent on the p21/PCNA interaction . Thus , p21 is a tumor suppressor that is required at every S phase to prevent genomic instability .
The human PINK1 protein is a mitochondrial ubiquitin E3 ligase that mediates the elimination of damaged mitochondria via autophagy . Mutations in PINK1 cause familial Parkinson’s disease ( PD ) and , in contrast to other protein kinases , PINK1 lacks a conserved ATP binding pocket and exhibits constitutive catalytic activity towards ubiquitin and its substrate Parkin . Here , we present the crystal structure of the Tribolium castaneum PINK1 ( TcPINK1 ) orthologue . The structure reveals a novel bowl-shaped binding site for ubiquitin that is critical for either TcPINK1 or hPINK1-mediated ubiquitin and Parkin Ubl phosphorylation . Furthermore , we have elaborated an important regulatory role for TcPINK1 autophosphorylation of Ser205 , which together with the third insertion , aids in physiological substrate recognition . These findings provide molecular insights into the mechanisms of hPINK1 kinase activity , ubiquitin substrate recognition , and define the molecular basis of PD-causing mutations .
Dengue viruses ( DENVs ) are the most common cause of hemorrhagic fever in humans . DENV infection can cause vascular leakage and hemorrhagic complications , but the mechanisms by which this occurs are poorly understood . Mast cells , which are known to be important in the immune response to DENV infection , have been implicated in DENV-induced vascular leakage , but their role in this process has not been fully elucidated . Here , we report that mast cells are critical to the development of vascular leakage during DENV infection in a mouse model . In this model , mice that lack mast cells ( Sash ) are protected from vascular leakage during DENV infection , while mice that are genetically modified to overexpress mast cells are susceptible to vascular leakage . This suggests that mast cells play a critical role in the development of vascular leakage during DENV infection . In human clinical samples , we found that patients that developed hemorrhagic complications during DENV infection had higher levels of mast cell-derived products in their blood than those who did not develop hemorrhagic complications . These findings suggest that mast cells may be a potential therapeutic target for DENV-induced vascular leakage .
Alexander disease ( AxD ) is an invariably fatal neurodegenerative disorder caused by mutations in the glial fibrillary acidic protein ( GFAP ) gene . In AxD , GFAP mutations lead to the formation of perinuclear aggregates and reactive astrocytes , which are associated with severe clinical symptoms . Here , we identify a critical post-translational modification ( PTM ) of GFAP that is associated with the most severe form of AxD . We show that phosphorylation of Ser-13 on the head domain of GFAP promotes aggregation and is a marker of perinuclear GFAP accumulation in AxD patient astrocytes . Furthermore , we demonstrate that caspase-6 is selectively upregulated in the brain tissue of patients who died very young , and that this upregulation is associated with increased levels of caspase-cleaved GFAP . Our findings reveal a novel PTM signature associated with defective GFAP proteostasis in the most severe form of AxD .
Mosquitoes are the most important vectors of human diseases such as malaria , dengue , and Zika . Surveillance of mosquito populations is critical to preventing disease outbreaks and guiding control strategies . However , there is a lack of data on the distribution of mosquitoes in space and time . Here , we show that mobile phones can be used to collect acoustic data on mosquito wingbeats , which can be used for automated identification and mapping of mosquito populations . We demonstrate this approach using a variety of mobile phones and show that it can be used to classify mosquito species with high accuracy in laboratory and field settings . Our technique is scalable , inexpensive , and can be used to generate large amounts of mosquito data in resource-constrained areas where it is most needed . We propose a citizen science effort for mapping mosquito populations using mobile phones .
Positive selection is a fundamental process in immunodominance , yet the role of positive selection in determining post-selection T cell repertoire remains unknown . Here we used a transgenic mouse model of a single positively selecting self-peptide , gp250 , to examine the relationship between positive selection and post-selection T cell repertoire . We found gp250-mediated positive selection enriched for MHC class II-restricted CD4+ T cells with the Vα11+Vβ3+ CD4+ TCR pair , which was the dominant TCR pair in MCC-specific T cell response . The gp250-mediated positive selection skewed the selection of TCR Vα and Vβ usages , including the conserved CDR3α and β features , of MCC-reactive T cells . Our data provide direct evidence that positive selection plays a central role in determining post-selection T cell repertoire and is a major determinant in immunodominance .
In humans , the hand area of the primary somatosensory cortex ( S1 ) contains digit maps , with physically adjacent digits represented next to each other . Here , we show that digit topography is preserved in the absence of peripheral inputs . Two amputees , who had lost their left hand several decades ago , and 13 control participants , performed digit movements of the phantom hand and intact hand . Both amputees and controls showed digit maps in the central sulcus and postcentral gyrus , corresponding to S1 , and maps that were consistent with the digit preference principle . However , the maps were weaker and noisier than those found in controls . This finding provides evidence for preserved digit topography in the absence of peripheral inputs .
Alternative splicing is a major mechanism for generating diversity in mammalian cells and tissues . Here we define the cis- and trans-acting determinants of a global alternative splicing program that is essential for normal development and epithelial cell function . We identify the epithelial splicing regulatory proteins ( Esrps ) as the primary regulators of the Fgfr2-IIIb splicing event , and show that loss of Esrps results in defects in epidermal and limb development in mice . We also demonstrate that the epithelial splicing program is highly sensitive to loss of Esrps and that the splicing of other targets is differentially affected by loss of Esrps , with variable sensitivity to loss of Esrps in different tissues and cells . This demonstrates that the epithelial splicing program is highly regulated in vivo and that the Esrps play a central role in regulating the expression of genes involved in epithelial cell maintenance and function .
We examined the translational and therapeutic potential of the satiety signaling molecule lipocalin-2 ( LCN2 ) in humans . We show that LCN2 is elevated postprandially in lean human subjects and inversely correlates with hunger sensation . We also show that LCN2 crosses the blood-brain barrier in monkeys , binds to the hypothalamic feeding center , and suppresses food intake in both lean monkeys and rhesus macaques . These data suggest that LCN2 may be a new satiety signaling molecule that may be used to develop an effective and safe treatment for obesity .
Mice use their whiskers to track walls during wall-guided locomotion . We investigated neural coding of wall distance in the barrel cortex of head-fixed mice using two complementary methods: photoinhibition and optogenetics . We show that barrel cortex activity is necessary for guiding locomotion based on whisker cues and that wall distance can be encoded in spike rates in barrel cortex layer 4 . Using optogenetics , we show that wall-tracking behavior is mediated by layer 4 of the barrel cortex , and that wall distance is encoded by graded activation of layer 4 . We also show that wall-tracking is mediated by the contralateral hemisphere , and that wall-tracking can be achieved by driving the contralateral hemisphere .
Protective immunity against autoimmune disease can be induced by peptide-tolerance . However , the molecular mechanisms underpinning this process are poorly understood . Here , we show that PD-1 expression is required for tolerance of peptide-responsive T cells and that this is associated with epigenetic changes at the Pdcd1 promoter . In contrast , PD-1-deficient T cells remain unresponsive to peptide-tolerance . We also show that PD-1 expression is a critical component of peptide-tolerance and that it is associated with the presence of long-term PD-1 expression and the loss of 5-hydroxymethylation at the Pdcd1 promoter .
Forager knowledge and consistent use of wild cereals are still debated and poorly documented outside of the assumed centers of domestication in southwestern Asia . For some time , it has been claimed that in the Balkans some forms of intense gathering or incipient human management of local plant and animal species might have occurred before the full-blown transition to the Neolithic . However , the hypothesis of a systematic use of wild grasses of the Poaceae family ( e . g . , Aegilops spp . ; Hordeum spp . ) during the Mesolithic remains to be verified in this region . Here , we present the first evidence of domesticated cereal grains and plant food consumption in the LM from the analyses of dental calculus and GSTs found at Mesolithic sites in the Danube Gorges area of the north-central Balkans between present-day Serbia and Romania . This is one of the best researched areas of Europe regarding the Mesolithic–Neolithic transition period with more than 20 sites spanning the duration of the Epipalaeolithic through to the Mesolithic and EN ( ~13 , 000–5500 cal BC ) . Our results , based on a robust sample of 61 individuals , show that the foragers of the Danube Gorges area were familiar with several species of the Triticeae tribe and other plant foods in the region already since ~9500 cal BC .
Many driver mutations in cancer are infrequent and not easily recurrent . However , a large number of tumor-specific gene expression alterations are not due to driver mutations . One such mechanism is premature cleavage and polyadenylation ( pPA ) of intronic RNA . Here , we report that premature cleavage and polyadenylation of MAGI3 , a scaffolding protein , in human breast cancer , is recurrent and recapitulates a previously unappreciated mechanism for driver alterations . The truncated MAGI3 product inhibits the Hippo tumor suppressor pathway by preventing the inhibitory interaction between MAGI3 and the oncoprotein YAP . Importantly , truncated MAGI3 proteins physically interact with full-length MAGI3 proteins and interfere with MAGI3/YAP interactions . Our results support a role for pPA in cancer and highlight MAGI3 as a previously unappreciated driver in human cancer .
The zebrafish larva is an important model for studying innate behaviors . Larvae respond to small moving objects by swimming toward them , and this behavior is mediated by the retina . We used a head-fixed preparation to identify the specific stimuli that elicit this behavior , and to map the visual pathway involved . We found that a subset of retinal ganglion cells ( RGCs ) project to a small retinorecipient area ( AF7 ) , which responds selectively to small moving objects . This area is also innervated by two distinct classes of neurons that project to the optic tectum and the nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus . We found that the optic tectum and the nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus are necessary for prey capture , and that neurons in AF7 project to both areas . Our results identify a specific pretectal area as a key component of the prey detection circuit , and point toward a series of parallel and interconnected pathways between multiple areas involved in this elementary form of object recognition .
Social insect colonies , such as ants and bees , are superorganisms , in which individuals have specialized roles . Social insects have evolved a unique social physiology , in which nutrients are distributed among individuals by a circulatory system . The social fluid circulating within and between individuals is called trophallactic fluid . We analyzed the trophallactic fluid proteome of the carpenter ant Camponotus floridanus at different scales . We show that trophallactic fluid proteomes are filled with biomarkers reflecting biotic and abiotic conditions at both the colony and individual scale . We found that trophallactic fluid proteins are involved in metabolism and are differentially abundant in different life stages and in different colonies . These results suggest that trophallactic fluid is a form of social circulatory system and that it is involved in the social physiology of ants .
Crystallographic structure determination of proteins is often accompanied by the assumption that the diffraction data represent a static structure . However , recent experiments have shown that dynamic fluctuations are present in the diffraction data . We show that the X-ray data can be modelled to account for both anisotropic and anharmonic atomic fluctuations . We present an ensemble-refinement method that samples local atomic fluctuations only , without the need for sampling large-scale disorder . The method is based on the underlying TLS model of the protein core . We show that ensemble refinement improves the Rfree by 1 . 8% and 0 . 49% compared to single-structure refinement . The resulting ensemble models contain detailed features of atomic fluctuations that may be relevant for the biological function of the macromolecules .
Holoprosencephaly ( HPE ) is a common developmental defect that affects 1 in 250 human conceptions . HPE is characterized by a range of rostroventral midline defects , including cyclopia , craniofacial anomalies , and a range of eye defects . Mutations in the Nodal , Hedgehog , and FGF signaling pathways are associated with HPE , but these alone are insufficient to drive aberrant development . We modeled the synergistic effects of Cdon mutation and fetal alcohol exposure on HPE in mice . Cdon mutation and fetal alcohol synergize to inhibit HH signaling in the developing forebrain and produce a wide spectrum of HPE phenotypes . Cdon mutation and fetal alcohol exposure synergize to inhibit Nodal signaling in mouse embryonic stem cells . The window of sensitivity to HPE induced by fetal alcohol is closed by embryonic day ( E ) 7 . 5 , when Nodal signaling is initiated in the primitive streak . The Nodal pathway is a major point of synergy between Cdon mutation and fetal alcohol . These findings illuminate mechanisms of gene-environment interaction in a high fidelity , multifactorial model of a common birth defect .
Presystemic regulation of antidiuretic hormone ( AVP ) is a critical feature of water homeostasis . While the neural inputs mediating this process are well-documented , the neural circuits that relay presystemic signals to AVP neurons are not . Here , we show that AVP neurons receive direct synaptic input from magnocellular neurons in the lateral part of the hypothalamus ( LT ) . We identified a subset of LT neurons that are responsible for water-related presystemic regulation of AVP neurons . These neurons are indispensable for water-related presystemic regulation of AVP neurons but not for food-related presystemic regulation . In contrast , food-related presystemic regulation is mediated by an as yet unidentified neuronal population in the arcuate nucleus ( ARC ) . Our results provide a neural circuit basis for differential regulation of AVP release by diverse behavioral and physiological stimuli .
A large number of footprints and traces are preserved in the ‘Sala dei Misteri’ of the ‘Grotta della Bàsura’ , a cave in the Dolomites ( Italy ) that was visited by humans about 14 , 000 years ago . Footprints were traced back to at least five individuals of different ages and sexes . The morphology of the footprints , especially of the plantar arch , and the presence of kneeling traces indicate that the explorers adopted a crawling posture in the cave . This is the first unequivocal evidence of crawling in the human ichnological record .
The Drosophila larva is a powerful model for the study of learning and memory formation . We have developed a new apparatus to measure the olfactory preferences of individual larvae in response to a gas ( CO2 ) , and we have used this apparatus to investigate how larvae form memories . We find that learning is quantized and all-or-none , and that the memory can be erased by repeated exposure to unrewarded CO2 presentation . We also show that the memory is resistant to extinction , but can be disrupted by feeding larvae with cycloheximide . Our apparatus and protocol provide a strong starting point for the study of olfactory learning in larvae .
The ability of echolocating bats to recognize places and navigate back to them is a key component of their successful foraging strategies . However , the complexity of the environment and the limitations of the bat’s auditory system make it unlikely that they are able to reconstruct a 3D spatial representation of a scene from the echoes . Here , we propose that bats use a template-based approach to place recognition . Under this hypothesis , bats would match the output of the cochlea to a set of stored templates , i . e . classifying the echo signature as one of a set of memorized echo signatures each one recorded at a previously visited place . This approach avoids the computational hard problem of deriving a 3D spatial representation from complex echo signals . Moreover , echo templates have been shown to be very discriminative . Using ensonification data , we derive templates from many echo trains from natural habitats . We assess the viability of our hypothesis by evaluating whether the derived templates are sufficient to support place recognition . Indeed , the viability of a template-based approach to place recognition depends on the following two properties of the templates: ( 1 ) unique classification of templates and ( 2 ) template continuity . In the discussion , we argue that , by satisfying these two criteria , the templates can support navigation . In addition , we discuss how the templates could support the acquisition of a cognitive map .
The Sec machinery is responsible for the post-translational insertion of proteins into membranes , and the ATP-dependent SecA translocase is its key component . SecA translocates proteins through the SecYEG translocon , which is a protein-channel spanning the membrane . We have used all-atom molecular dynamics simulations , combined with single molecule fluorescence resonance energy transfer ( FRET ) , to investigate the nucleotide-dependent opening and closing of the SecYEG translocon . These experiments show that the nucleotide binding site of SecA is in close proximity to the protein channel of SecY , and that the SecA ATPase activity regulates the aperture of the SecY channel . In addition , the lateral gate of SecYEG is shown to be communicating with the nucleotide binding site , such that changes in SecA nucleotide occupancy control the aperture of the SecYEG translocon .
Sexual maturation in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans is triggered by the onset of gonad-specific maturation events in the nervous system . We have identified a conserved regulatory cassette that controls the timing of these events in the nervous system . This cassette contains the heterochronic pathway genes lin-28 , lin-41 and lin-29 , which are expressed in a sexually dimorphic manner . lin-29 is a transcription factor that is expressed in a male-specific manner in a subset of sex-shared neurons . lin-29 expression is precisely timed by the heterochronic pathway and is required for the correct acquisition of male-specific features of these neurons . We show that lin-29 is also required for the correct timing of sexual maturation events in the nervous system of mammals .
Sexual reproduction is a fundamental biological process in which cells carrying a heritable genome are selected for transmission to the next generation . To accomplish this , cells that carry the heritable genome must be identified and segregated from those that do not . Here , we identify a protein that is expressed specifically in cells carrying the heritable genome , in both mammals and single-celled eukaryotes . This protein , which we name GCNA , is a highly conserved disordered protein that is present in all major groups of eukaryotes , including plants and fungi . We show that Gcna is required for male fertility in mice and C . elegans , and that Gcna functions in DNA repair in both organisms . Our findings suggest that GCNA has been present in the last common ancestor of extant eukaryotes , and that GCNA proteins have become specialized for cells carrying a heritable genome .
Steroid hormones and their receptors are critical for reproductive processes in mammals . In the female reproductive tract , estrogen signaling through the estrogen receptor alpha ( ERα ) regulates gene expression in both epithelial and mesenchymal cells . Here , we show that estrogen-epithelial ERα signaling is required for successful fertilization and early embryo development in the mouse oviduct . Female mice lacking ERα in the epithelium of the oviduct ( cKO ) are infertile and have reduced fertilization and embryo development . In contrast , female mice lacking ERα in mesenchymal cells ( mesenchymal cKO ) are fertile and have normal fertilization and embryo development . We find that the embryo development failure in cKO oviducts is caused by excessive protease activity , which disrupts zona pellucida and plasma membrane integrity . Inhibition of protease activity rescues embryo development . These findings indicate that estrogen signaling through ERα in the oviduct is critical for fertilization and embryo development .
FOXL2 is a transcription factor that plays a crucial role in the regulation of granulosa cell fate and function . FOXL2 regulates the expression of several key genes involved in estrogen signaling , but the molecular mechanisms of FOXL2-mediated estrogen signaling are not well understood . Here , we show that FOXL2 regulates the expression of several estrogen receptors ( ERs ) in granulosa cells , and that FOXL2 is required for the expression of ESR2 in these cells . We also show that FOXL2 cooperates with ESR2 and estradiol to repress SOX9 expression and to establish normal estrogen signaling in granulosa cells . These results show that FOXL2 is a key regulator of estrogen signaling in granulosa cells .
Pheromones are chemical signals that trigger innate behaviors in animals . In mice , vomeronasal receptors ( VRs ) in the nasal cavity recognize specific pheromone cues . To date , most VRs have not been molecularly identified , nor have they been assigned with specific functions . Here we present a novel approach to identify receptors that respond to specific pheromone cues . We combine this approach with single-cell degenerate reverse transcription-PCR to clone receptor genes from neurons that show specific response profiles . We identify two distinct sets of female pheromone cues that are recognized by multiple VRs . One set of female cues is recognized by members of the vomeronasal receptor family V1rj , and the other set is recognized by members of the vomeronasal receptor family V1re . Both sets of cues are required to trigger male mounting behaviors . Our results suggest that the neural logic underlying pheromone processing involves the integration of two opposing logical mechanisms , one that detects cues with high sensitivity and the other that prevents non-specific induction of behaviors by false signals .
Many transcription factors ( TFs ) bind to specific sites on genomic DNA with high affinity . However , some TFs can bind to multiple sequences with high affinity . The molecular mechanism behind this phenomenon has been understood at the structural level for some dimers , but not for monomeric TFs . We performed structural analysis of two homeodomain proteins , the posterior homeodomain protein HOXB13 , and the parahox protein CDX2 , each bound to two distinct high-affinity sequences . The optimal sequences for HOXB13 are CCAATAAA and CTCGTAAA that differ from each other by the three underlined base pairs , whereas CDX2 binds with high affinity to similar two sequences that begin with a G instead of a C . This analysis , together with thermodynamic measurements of HOXB13 , CDX2 and two other transcription factors , BARHL2 and MYF5 that also display multiple specificity revealed that in each case , one of the optimal sequences is bound primarily due to an optimal enthalpic contribution , whereas the other is bound due to an optimum of entropy . This result is likely to be general to most macromolecular interactions , as they commonly involve interaction of the macromolecules with a network of interconnected water-molecules , whose formation involves a trade-off between enthalpy and entropy .
The flagellum is a bacterial filament that propels the bacteria through a fluid environment . It is composed of a rod-like structure called a flagellum that is anchored to the bacterial cell wall and is propelled by a protein called flagellin . A cap protein called FliD is located at the distal end of the flagellum and is responsible for its formation and assembly . FliD is a large protein with an intricate structure that has been poorly characterized . Here , we report the crystal structure of Pseudomonas aeruginosa FliD , which is a member of the flagellum-capping proteins family . We show that the flagellar cap protein of Pseudomonas aeruginosa forms hexamers in crystals and in solution , whereas the flagellar cap protein of Salmonella typhimurium forms pentamers . We also demonstrate that the hexameric form of Pseudomonas FliD is functional in vivo , resulting in swimming motility that is similar to that of wild-type Pseudomonas aeruginosa . Our data provide insights into the molecular determinants of flagellar cap protein oligomerization and suggest that the flagellum may incorporate a larger number of protofilaments than previously thought .
