Tumours are characterized by alterations in the epigenetic regulation of the genome, which is a critical factor in tumour formation and progression. However, the mechanisms underlying the epigenetic changes in tumours are not well understood. Here we report on the epigenetic changes occurring in a mouse model of intestinal tumour development, which is characterized by the loss of the tumour suppressor gene APC. We found that the mouse model, which arises from a single genetic mutation, displays a characteristic DNA methylation signature that is not present in normal tissue. This signature is recurring in the different adenomas of the mouse model, and is conserved in human colon cancer. These observations suggest that the epigenetic changes in tumours are established early during tumour formation, and that a core set of epigenetic markers may be universal to a large majority of human intestinal malignancies. These markers may be useful for the early detection of tumours, which is critical for the implementation of effective therapeutic strategies.
Chagas disease is an important public health problem in Latin America, with an estimated 13 million people infected. The disease is caused by the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma cruzi. Two strains of the parasite, T. cruzi I (Col cl1.7) and T. cruzi II (Y strain), have been identified and have been shown to have different virulence profiles. The objective of this study was to determine how these strains affect the host’s immune response. Human peripheral blood cells were infected with either T. cruzi I or T. cruzi II and the expression of different molecules was analyzed. We found that the two strains of T. cruzi stimulate different immune responses in human cells, and that the T. cruzi II strain leads to a more inflammatory response. This may be important for understanding how different strains of the parasite can cause different clinical forms of Chagas disease.
DNA polymerases are essential for genome replication and DNA repair. The DNA polymerase encoded by the POLN gene is a DNA polymerase I (Pol ν) that is restricted to vertebrates. In mammals, the function of Pol ν is unknown. To address this question, we analyzed mice that are deficient in Pol ν. We found that Pol ν is uniquely upregulated in testis, and is enriched in spermatocytes. We also found that Pol ν is required for efficient recombination at specific recombination hotspots in mouse spermatocytes. These findings suggest that Pol ν plays a specialized role in testis.
Vaccines are considered a cost-effective way to control infectious diseases. Vaccines are considered a cost-effective way to control infectious diseases. Dengue virus belongs to the Flavivirus genus of the Flaviviridae family and includes four antigenically different serotypes of dengue virus. Dengue virus is a growing threat to public health, not only in terms of geographical distribution but also with respect to infection cases. Dengue viral infection causes dengue fever, which is a self-limiting illness. However, infection with dengue virus can also develop into severe dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF) or dengue shock syndrome (DSS). The pathogenesis of DHF and DSS is still not fully understood. Dengue virus infection is mediated by the dengue virus envelope protein domain III. The envelope protein domain III is responsible for viral attachment by binding to the cellular receptor. The lipid moiety of the bacterial-derived lipoprotein can activate the innate immune system to elicit an appropriate adaptive immune response. In the present study, we demonstrated that lipidated dengue-2 envelope protein domain III is a suitable vaccine candidate for inducing long-lasting neutralizing antibody responses with a low risk of detrimental effects.
Cells respond to external factors by transducing the signal through intracellular signaling pathways. Signaling pathways are composed of a series of enzymatic reactions that are connected in a cascade. The final step of the cascade activates a downstream enzyme that can trigger a variety of cellular responses. The activity of the enzymes in the cascade can vary between cells, leading to differences in the cell population response to the same external factor. This variability in the cell population response is a major challenge for biological systems, and may be a limiting factor in the formation of tissues and organs. Here, we systematically characterize the cell-to-cell variability of intracellular signaling pathways. We show that the cell-to-cell variability of signaling pathways can be reduced by negative feedback mechanisms or by correlated fluctuations in the protein concentrations of the signaling pathway.
Visceral leishmaniasis is a neglected tropical disease that is caused by the protozoan parasite Leishmania donovani. The disease is characterized by chronic inflammation in the spleen and liver. The disease is often fatal, and there are no effective treatments. In this study, the researchers used mice to investigate how the immune system responds to the parasite. The researchers found that the immune system of the mice responded to the parasite by producing molecules called cytokines, which help to kill the parasites. However, the immune system of the mice was not able to kill the parasite effectively, and the parasite was able to evade the immune system by inducing a dysfunctional response. The researchers were able to rescue the immune system of the mice by blocking a molecule called B7-H1, which is involved in suppressing the immune system. The researchers also showed that mice that were treated with a vaccine that stimulated the immune system were able to kill the parasite. These results suggest that vaccines that stimulate the immune system could be effective against visceral leishmaniasis.
Prion diseases, such as Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, are a group of fatal neurodegenerative disorders that are characterized by the accumulation of misfolded prion protein (PrP) in the brain. The misfolded PrP is believed to be the main component of infectious prions that transmit the disease. The abnormal folding of PrP is a complex process that is not fully understood. Here, we have used molecular dynamics simulations to investigate the effects of the protonation of a specific residue, H187, on the structure of mammalian PrP. Our findings suggest that the protonation of H187 can lead to two different final structures, one with an elongated S1,S2 and the other with an unraveled H2(Cter). This dual behavior may contribute to the variety of strains observed in prion diseases.
Trachoma is a leading cause of blindness worldwide, and trichiasis is the most common form of trachoma. Trichiasis is caused by in-turned eyelashes. In many trachoma endemic regions, epilation is a traditional treatment for trichiasis. Epilation is a widespread treatment strategy for trichiasis in trachoma endemic regions, and is considered to be effective in controlling trichiasis. However, the long-term effectiveness of epilation is unknown. We compared the effectiveness of epilation with surgery in controlling trichiasis in Ethiopia. At two years, there was no difference in the change in visual acuity or corneal opacity between the two groups. At four years, there was no difference in the change in visual acuity or corneal opacity between the two groups. The majority of individuals with mild trichiasis declined surgery and preferred to continue epilating. Epilation was effective in controlling mild trichiasis, and was a reasonable second-line alternative to surgery for individuals who either declined surgery or did not have immediate access to surgical treatment.
Dengue is the most prevalent mosquito-borne viral disease worldwide and in the past 40 years has undergone a global resurgence. The virus is transmitted by mosquitoes and causes dengue fever, dengue shock syndrome, and haemorrhagic fever. Understanding the mechanisms of the virus entry into and replication in human cells is important for the development of safe and effective vaccines and therapeutic inhibitors of early dengue virus replication. The dengue virus (DV) interacts with a number of opsonic and non-opsonic receptors on cells of the mononuclear phagocyte lineage, including DC-SIGN. The macrophage mannose receptor (MR) is an alternative opsonic receptor for DV. We have shown that MR is upregulated on cells of the monocyte-derived macrophage (MDMØ) lineage following treatment with type 2 cytokines, such as IL-4 and IL-13. Infection of MDMØ with DV is enhanced by IL-4 and IL-13, and this enhancement is mediated by the presence of MR on the cell surface. The MR is a novel functional receptor for DV infection of human macrophages and may be important in the pathogenesis of dengue disease.
The human brain is a complex network of interconnected regions, with different functions and properties. The brain is able to adapt to changing conditions, but the underlying mechanisms are not well understood. Here, we present a simple model of the brain, based on empirical data about the structure of the brain, which is able to move within a virtual environment. The model is able to adapt to the environment and generate a wide range of movements and neural activity. We show that the model can be used to explore the role of homeostatic mechanisms in the brain, which are known to help the brain adapt to changing conditions. We find that the model is able to adapt to changing conditions, but that the brain needs to have multiple mechanisms to do this. The presence of these mechanisms requires the brain to change its balance between different regions, and this has a large impact on the way the brain behaves. These findings suggest that the brain may use different mechanisms to adapt to different conditions.
Gene expression is regulated by a variety of mechanisms, including transcriptional interference, silencing, and 3D clustering. The mechanisms of these regulations are thought to act over short distances. However, recent studies indicate that these mechanisms may also act over long distances in some organisms. In this study, we developed a novel assay to screen for functional long-distance chromosomal interactions that affect gene expression. We found that a subset of long-distance chromosomal interactions can alter the expression level and cell-to-cell variability of a reporter gene. We also found that a subset of these interactions can lead to overexpression of a subset of genes. This assay may be used as a general platform to screen for functional long-distance chromosomal interactions that affect gene expression.
The process of meiosis is the only mechanism by which sexually reproducing organisms can generate genetically diverse gametes. Meiosis involves a series of complex steps, including the formation of recombination products, the exchange of genetic material between homologous chromosomes, and the segregation of the resulting chromosomes during cell division. One of the key steps in meiosis is the formation of crossovers, which are the recombination products that form between homologous chromosomes. In order for crossovers to form, homologous chromosomes must first exchange genetic material between each other. This exchange is mediated by the formation of a chiasma, which is a structure that connects the homologous chromosomes. The formation of crossovers is a highly regulated process, as the formation of a chiasma is required for homologous chromosomes to exchange genetic material between each other. In order to ensure that crossovers are formed at the correct locations, the chromosomes must first be organized into chiasmata. In the current study, we investigate the role of Pch2 in the formation of chiasmata and the formation of crossovers. We find that Pch2 is required for the formation of chiasmata and the formation of crossovers. We further find that Pch2 is required for normal homologous chromosome segregation in cells with reduced recombination events. Our findings provide novel insights into the mechanism of chiasma formation and suggest that the formation of chiasma is a highly coordinated process that is controlled by the same determinants.
Plants are continuously exposed to a variety of microorganisms. In order to successfully avoid infection, they have evolved a series of defense mechanisms that work in concert to limit pathogen invasion and multiplication. Unlike animals, plants lack an adaptive immune system and rely on their innate immune system to recognize and restrict pathogenic microbes. The innate immune system recognizes pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) and initiates a signaling cascade that leads to the activation of pathogen-associated genes. In plants, this signaling cascade is responsible for the regulation of stomatal apertures, which are the points of entry for pathogens into the plant leaf interior. The RIN4 protein is a negative regulator of the plant innate immune system. RIN4 associates with the proton pump H+-ATPase, which regulates stomatal apertures in response to pathogen attack. We have identified RIN4-associated proteins and have shown that RIN4 can interact with the H+-ATPase in planta. We also show that RIN4 can act to regulate stomatal apertures in response to pathogen attack. These results provide a mechanistic insight into how RIN4 regulates plant innate immunity and highlight the importance of stomatal regulation during plant innate immunity.
In recent years, Europe has faced outbreaks of mosquito-borne diseases (MBD) such as dengue and chikungunya. These outbreaks are often caused by the continuous importation of human cases in areas with established competent vectors such as the invasive mosquito Aedes (Stegomyia) albopictus. Vector control interventions can be implemented by local authorities to keep in check mosquito abundance and consequently reduce the epidemiological risk. However, the effectiveness of reactive measures decreases with the delay between outbreak initiation and implementation of control. Therefore, a better approach may consist in preventive interventions. In this work, we evaluated the effect of routine larviciding against dengue and chikungunya, two viruses transmitted by bites of Ae. albopictus mosquitoes. We used data from two seasons of entomological surveillance in multiple sites from northern Italy to parametrize a mathematical model of mosquito population dynamics and control. We found that the most effective interventions in reducing the amount of expected locally transmitted cases were those for which the window of larvicide efficacy covered at least the month of July. We also found that the benefits of larviciding are partially offset by the higher cost of intervention; in these cases, a moderate larviciding effort (1 to 3 treatments within the season) is recommended.
Bats use a highly specialized form of echolocation to navigate and avoid obstacles. This echolocation system relies on a unique sensory strategy that uses the timing and intensity differences of echoes returning from nearby objects to localize prey. However, it is unclear what cues bats use to avoid obstacles. In this paper, we show that bats can use the first echo of their echolocation signal to reliably avoid obstacles. We demonstrate this by using a computer simulation to model the flight of a bat and the echoes it emits and receives. Our results show that the first echo of a bat’s signal can be used to reliably avoid obstacles. This suggests that bats are able to extract useful information from their echoes without the need to reconstruct the 3D layout of the environment.
Metabolism is the process by which cells convert energy and resources into the building blocks and energy-rich molecules required for their survival and reproduction. It is a complex network of chemical reactions that can be studied at a number of different levels, ranging from the individual metabolic pathways of a single organism to the global metabolic networks of entire ecosystems. In this paper, we explore the possibility that the architecture of metabolic networks may reflect an underlying arithmetic simplicity. We use an idealized chemistry to explore the properties of optimal metabolic pathways, and then compare the results to those observed in real metabolic networks. We find that optimal pathways in the idealized chemistry exhibit a logarithmic dependence of pathway length on the size of the input and output molecules. This logarithmic dependence is consistent with the properties of the artificial chemistry, and suggests that the same principles may be at work in real metabolism. We also find that certain metabolites and reactions are used in a universal manner across all optimal pathways. These results suggest that fundamental principles of metabolism may have played a role in shaping the evolution of metabolic networks.
Answer: The purpose of the method is to infer migration rates and population sizes across space in recent time periods.
Insulin resistance is a chronic condition characterized by reduced sensitivity to the effects of circulating insulin. Insulin resistance is observed in otherwise healthy individuals following severe trauma, hemorrhage, or sepsis. Insulin resistance may play a physiological role in modulating the response to injury. Insulin signals are locally integrated by the fibrotic microenvironment surrounding the adult liver stem cells during chronic injury. Insulin resistance disrupts the local paracrine circuit, resulting in a blunted epithelial response to chronic injury. We have identified a novel role for insulin signals in promoting the paracrine crosstalk between the fibrotic stroma and bipotent liver progenitors during chronic injury in the liver. We have demonstrated that insulin/IRS2 signaling is required for the induction of FGF7 expression in fibrotic stroma and for the survival of fibrocytes during fibrogenic reversion. These findings suggest that insulin/IRS2 signaling is required for the regulation of the stromal microenvironment and for the induction of epithelial repair in the liver.
Dendrites are branching structures that extend from neurons and allow the neurons to sample their environment. The precise patterning of dendrites is important for the proper functioning of the nervous system. Recent work has shown that the unfolded protein response, a cellular response to stress in the endoplasmic reticulum, is involved in dendrite patterning. This response is compromised in a number of neurodegenerative conditions, such as autism spectrum disorders. Here, we show that the unfolded protein response is required for the proper patterning of dendrites in both the roundworm C. elegans and mammals. We also find that the unfolded protein response is activated in response to reduced insulin/IGF1 signaling. This suggests that reducing insulin/IGF1 signaling may be a new way to restore the proper patterning of dendrites in neurons.
NAD+ is a central player in cellular metabolism. It is shuttled from the oxidation of growth substrates to respiratory or fermentative pathways. The balance between the reduced and oxidized forms of NAD+ is maintained by the transcription factor ArcA. ArcA is a key regulator of gene expression in Escherichia coli, which controls the expression of genes involved in carbon oxidation pathways. In this paper, we show that ArcA binds to a specific DNA sequence that is associated with the reduced form of NAD+, which is shuttled towards fermentation pathways. This allows the cell to preserve energy and sustain the balance between the reduced and oxidized forms of NAD+. ArcA regulates a large number of operons involved in carbon oxidation pathways, which is essential for cellular metabolism.
The pituitary gland is a small endocrine organ located at the base of the brain and regulates the body's response to stress, growth, reproduction and energy homeostasis. Mutations in the retinoblastoma protein (Rb) gene, a tumor suppressor, have been found in human pituitary tumors. The role of Rb in pituitary development is unknown. To investigate this, we used a forward genetic screen in zebrafish to identify genes required for pituitary development and found that loss of a gene called usp39 leads to increased pituitary cell growth. This is due to a splicing defect in the Rb gene, which is important for regulating cell growth. Further analysis revealed that usp39 regulates the expression of E2F4, a key transcription factor that promotes cell growth. Our findings suggest that mutations in usp39 may contribute to pituitary tumorigenesis.
Intrauterine infection with human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a leading cause of developmental brain damage in infants. The exact mechanisms of this disease are not well understood, but the host immune response is believed to play a role. In this study, we have examined the role of inflammation in a murine model of congenital HCMV infection. We found that treatment with a glucocorticoid drug, dexamethasone, normalized the development of the cerebellum in infected mice. This was accompanied by a decrease in the expression of genes involved in the development of the cerebellum, including genes that control the proliferation of granule neuron progenitors. These findings suggest that inflammation in the developing brain of infants may contribute to the developmental abnormalities associated with intrauterine HCMV infection.
Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) are a major cause of diarrheal illness in developing countries where these organisms cause hundreds of millions of infections and an estimated 300,000–500,000 deaths in young children each year. ETEC are genetically heterogeneous pathogens that share the ability to colonize the small intestine where they deliver the cholera toxin-like heat-labile toxin (LT) and/or small peptide heat-stable (ST) toxins that ultimately result in diarrhea. In the classic paradigm for ETEC pathogenesis, small intestinal colonization requires plasmid-encoded colonization factors (CFs). However, CF antigens are not appreciably cross-protective, and many ETEC strains do not appear to produce CFs. Moreover, LT alone (or the homologous cholera toxin) do not appear to afford complete sustained protection, while ST, typically only 19 amino acids in its mature form, is not suitably immunogenic. These constraints, as well as a growing appreciation of the complexity of ETEC pathogenesis, have prompted searches for additional surface-expressed antigens. Use of classical genetic approaches including TnphoA mutagenesis to find novel molecules exposed on the surface of ETEC, recently led to the identification of several putative virulence loci, including the etpBAC two-partner secretion locus, responsible for secretion of the EtpA adhesin molecule. Recent immunoproteomic studies of ETEC H10407 independently identified EtpA as well as several AT proteins including EatA, TibA and antigen 43 suggesting that these proteins are expressed during both experimental infection in mice and in humans. The passenger domains of these AT proteins are exported to the bacterial surface where they may be cleaved and appear in the supernatant as in the case of EatA, or remain largely associated with bacterial cell surface as has been described for antigen 43. Antibodies raised against the recombinant passenger domains of Ag43, pAT, and EatA were tested in kinetic ELISA assays against the corresponding antigen as well as each of the other rATp domains. These studies revealed little or no cross-reactivity between antigens, suggesting that these proteins are immunologically distinct. The surface expression of the autotransporter passenger domains, their immunogenicity, and preliminary data presented here support the concept that this class of molecules could serve as protective antigens.
Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever (CCHF) is a serious viral disease caused by the CCHF virus (CCHFV). It is transmitted through the bite of infected ticks and is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in many countries in Africa, Asia, Eastern and Southern Europe, and the Middle East. CCHFV is found in animals, such as cattle and sheep, and can also be transmitted to humans through contact with infected animals or blood products. In Oman, CCHF was first detected in 1995 and then there were no cases until 2011. Since then there has been a steady increase in the number of cases. The clinical and laboratory features of CCHF are similar to those reported in other countries. The most common symptoms are fever, headache, and vomiting, and the most common risk factor is exposure to animals and meat products. The mortality rate in Oman is 36.4%. The virus has been detected in ticks and animals throughout Oman and in neighboring countries. These findings suggest that CCHF is endemic and under-recognized in Oman and neighboring countries. Prospective studies are needed to determine how often less severe cases of fever and thrombocytopenia are presenting in Oman.
Cells are highly optimized to maintain their normal functions despite fluctuations in intracellular parameters such as gene expression levels and protein activities. This robustness is a common design principle of biological systems. In this study, we focused on the budding yeast cell cycle, which is highly optimized to maintain its normal functions despite fluctuations in intracellular parameters. We used a mathematical model to simulate the robustness of the budding yeast cell cycle and compared it with experimental data obtained by genetic tug-of-war (gTOW) experiments. We found that robustness of the cell cycle arises from the quantitative balance between enzyme and its inhibitor. We further used gTOW to show that the fragility of cell cycle regulation caused by dosage imbalance is masked by other factors. We thus propose that robustness is a general property of biological systems, and the fragility caused by dosage imbalance is masked by other factors.
The STAT6 signal transducer and activator of transcription is a key transcription factor involved in the immune response. STAT6 is also involved in the regulation of extracellular cytokine and virus-mediated immune response. However, the role of STAT6 in herpesvirus infection remains unclear. Here, we show that the lytic cycle of Kaposi’s sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) is regulated by STAT6. RTA, a viral transcription factor encoded by KSHV, induces the degradation of STAT6 for the lytic activation of KSHV. RTA also induces ubiquitylation of a tumor suppressor protein, tripartite motif family like 2 (TRIML2), which prolongs the survival of infected cells. The degradation of STAT6 and TRIML2 is dependent on proteasome and lysosomal pathways. Our findings indicate that STAT6 plays a critical role in the regulation of the KSHV life cycle.
Answer: Aedes aegypti mosquitoes. Question: What data does this serological survey in Dhaka, Bangladesh present? Answer: Data on the magnitude (proportions) of seroprevalence and seroconversion within 12 selected wards. Question: What was the observed dengue seroprevalence in 2012 during the post-monsoon period? Answer: 93%. Question: What was the seroconversion rate between the pre- and post-monsoon periods in 2012? Answer: 57.7%. Question: What does the finding of high dengue seroprevalence suggest? Answer: That dengue virus (DENV) circulated in the city during the observation period. Question: What factors were highly associated with past exposure to dengue virus? Answer: Age, possession of indoor potted plants, types of mosquito control measures used, and human movement and attendance in mass gatherings. Question: Was the extent of dengue seroprevalence associated with the socioeconomic status of the study participants? Answer: It was not associated with socioeconomic status. Question: What factors were identified as important for exposure to dengue? Answer: Household utilities and water management or storage practices, recognition and elimination of mosquito development sites, and participation in mass gatherings. Question: What should intervention strategies for dengue prevention and control target? Answer: Household utilities, water management/storage practices, recognition/elimination of mosquito development sites, and participation in mass gatherings. Question: Where was this serological survey conducted? Answer: In the city of Dhaka, Bangladesh, within 12 selected wards.
Clostridium difficile is a major cause of antibiotic-associated diarrhea. The spores of this pathogen are resistant to antibiotics and can survive in the gut for weeks. C. difficile spores are produced in the intestine of infected individuals and can then be excreted and re-ingested by new hosts. The spores are released from the gut by a process called sporulation. This process involves the production of two types of cells: a vegetative cell and a spore. The vegetative cell, which is the cell that is not sporulating, is able to produce a toxin that can cause severe diarrhea and even death in humans. The spore, on the other hand, is able to survive in the gut for weeks and can cause infection in new hosts. The spore is formed by the sporulation process. The spore is produced by a process called sporulation. The sporulation process involves the production of a specialized cell called a spore coat. The spore coat is composed of two layers of proteins that protect the spore from the host's immune system. The spore coat is composed of two layers of proteins. The outer layer is responsible for the spore's ability to survive in the gut for weeks, while the inner layer is responsible for the spore's ability to cause infection in new hosts. The spore coat is formed by the sporulation process. The sporulation process involves the production of a specialized protein called σK. This protein is only produced in the mother cell of the sporulation process. The spore coat is composed of two layers of proteins. The outer layer is responsible for the spore's ability to survive in the gut for weeks, while the inner layer is responsible for the spore's ability to cause infection in new hosts. The spore coat is composed of two layers of proteins. The outer layer is responsible for the spore's ability to survive in the gut for weeks, while the inner layer is responsible for the spore's ability to cause infection in new hosts. The spore coat is composed of two layers of proteins. The outer layer is responsible for the spore's ability to survive in the gut for weeks, while the inner layer is responsible for the spore's ability to cause infection in new hosts. The spore coat is composed of two layers of proteins. The outer layer is responsible for the spore's ability to survive in the gut for weeks, while the inner layer is responsible for the spore's ability to cause infection in new hosts. The spore coat is composed of two layers of proteins. The outer layer is responsible for the spore's ability to survive in the gut for weeks, while the inner layer is responsible for the spore's ability to cause infection in new hosts. The spore coat is composed of two layers of proteins. The outer layer is responsible for the spore's ability to survive in the gut for weeks, while the inner layer is responsible for the spore's ability to cause infection in new hosts. The spore coat is composed of two layers of proteins. The outer layer is responsible for the spore's ability to survive in the gut for weeks, while the inner layer is responsible for the spore's ability to cause infection in new hosts. The spore coat is composed of two layers of proteins. The outer layer is responsible for the spore's ability to survive in the gut for weeks, while the inner layer is responsible for the spore's ability to cause infection in new hosts. The spore coat is composed of two layers of proteins. The outer layer is responsible for the spore's ability to survive in the gut for weeks, while the inner layer is responsible for the spore's ability to cause infection in new hosts. The spore coat is composed of two layers of proteins. The outer layer is responsible for the spore's ability to survive in the gut for weeks, while the inner layer is responsible for the spore's ability to cause infection in new hosts. The spore coat is composed of two layers of proteins. The outer layer is responsible for the spore's ability to survive in the gut for weeks, while the inner layer is responsible for the spore's ability to cause infection in new hosts. The spore coat is composed of two layers of proteins. The outer layer is responsible for the spore's ability to survive in the gut for weeks, while the inner layer is responsible for the spore's ability to cause infection in new hosts. The spore coat is composed of two layers
The human microbiome refers to the entire set of microbial organisms associated with the human host. The microbiome plays a crucial role in maintaining human health, and alterations of the microbiome are associated with many diseases. The microbiome can be characterized using next-generation sequencing technologies that provide accurate estimation of microbial communities directly from uncultured human-associated samples, such as stool, leading to significant advances in characterizing the microbiome. However, the predictive power of microbiome-based models remains to be assessed in large-scale disease-associated datasets. We performed a comprehensive assessment of metagenomics-based prediction tasks, and compared strategies for practical use of the microbiome as a prediction tool. We found that the microbiome can be used to predict disease states in a generalizable way, and that the dysbiotic microbiome is partially distinct from the healthy microbiome regardless of the specific disease under investigation.
HIV-1 disease progression is characterized by considerable variability in the rate of disease progression among patients with different genetic backgrounds. The human leukocyte antigen (HLA) B*5701 allele is the host factor most strongly associated with slow HIV-1 disease progression. The present study investigated the interplay between HIV-1 evolutionary rate variation and the risk of disease progression in HLA-B*5701 subjects. The analysis revealed that HIV-1 evolutionary rate was lower in subjects with low risk of disease progression than in those with high risk. The study also found that HLA-B*5701 subjects with CD4+ T cell counts >750 cells/mm3 during early infection had a lower rate of viral evolution and a lower risk of disease progression. The study provides a possible explanation for the correlation between HIV-1 in vivo replication rate and different risk of disease progression in HLA-B*5701 subjects.
Human and animal trypanosomiases are major public health problems in sub-Saharan Africa. These diseases are caused by the parasite Trypanosoma brucei and are transmitted by biting midges. The parasites multiply in the blood and the central nervous system of the mammals, causing severe illness and death in humans and animals. The drugs currently used to treat these diseases are ineffective and toxic, and new drugs are urgently needed. In this study, we have identified a protein called TbMCP14 as a potential target for drug development. TbMCP14 is a mitochondrial carrier protein that is essential for the parasite’s survival in the blood and is also involved in the action of choline analogs, which are used to kill the parasites. This suggests that TbMCP14 may be a promising target for drug development.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are the largest group of membrane proteins. More than 140 GPCRs have been identified, and many of them have been considered to be orphan GPCRs, meaning that their ligand is unknown. However, the majority of orphan GPCRs are considered to be ligand-activated. Here, we show that bombesin receptor subtype-3 (BRS3), an orphan GPCR, is a constitutively active GPCR in placental mammals, including humans. Our findings suggest that BRS3 is a genuinely orphan GPCR in placental mammals, and that many orphan GPCRs are probably orphan GPCRs in placental mammals.
Animal sleep is a complex physiological state that has been studied extensively in the scientific community. However, the identification of different sleep states and their quantification remains a challenging task for researchers. In this paper, we present a novel machine learning-based approach for sleep scoring, which can be applied to both human and animal recordings. The proposed method is capable of accurately identifying the different sleep stages, and it can also be used to detect changes in sleep patterns in response to genetic mutations or experimental conditions. The method is based on a deep neural network architecture, which is able to learn robust features that are invariant to different experimental conditions. We demonstrate that our approach is not only able to achieve high accuracy in identifying sleep states, but it is also able to generalize across different species, genetic mutants, and recording setups. The proposed framework is freely accessible online, and it can be used by researchers to analyze their own sleep recordings.
Toxoplasma gondii is an important human pathogen. It is a parasite that replicates within the host cell. T. gondii can cause severe eye disease in immunocompromised patients. It can also cause congenital infection in pregnant women. There is no effective vaccine against T. gondii and no antibiotics available to treat infections. We have discovered that T. gondii can take advantage of the host's own metabolic pathway to obtain the isoprenoids it needs to replicate. We have also found that T. gondii can also take up isoprenoids from the host. This is important because the parasite depends on this pathway for its growth. We propose a strategy that combines drugs that target the parasite's pathway with drugs that target the host's pathway. This strategy could be used against other intracellular parasites and could lead to the development of new treatments for these diseases.
The evolution of new pathogens and their ability to cause disease in humans and other organisms is of paramount importance for human health and food security. One of the most important diseases affecting banana crops is caused by a fungus called Sigatoka disease complex, which is caused by three related fungi, Pseudocercospora musae, Pseudocercospora eumusae, and Pseudocercospora fijiensis. These fungi have evolved from a common ancestor and are closely related to each other, but they differ in their ability to cause disease in banana plants. The goal of this study was to understand the evolutionary and genomic changes that have occurred in these fungi in order to better understand how they cause disease in banana plants. The study found that the three fungi have very different genomes, and that the genetic changes in the fungi that cause disease on banana plants are largely due to the evolution of the fungi. The study also found that the three fungi have very similar virulence-associated genes, which suggests that the evolution of virulence in these fungi is not solely due to changes in their genes but also to changes in the genes of their host. The findings of this study will help to understand the evolution of new pathogens and the development of new diseases in the future.
Leishmania parasites can cause visceral leishmaniasis and asymptomatic status in humans. The mechanisms that drive the development of symptoms or protect individuals from developing symptoms while infected with Leishmania are poorly understood. To address this issue, the authors used a data-driven approach to uncover transcriptional signatures from human blood. The analysis revealed that infections with Leishmania infantum induce a strong transcriptional signature of type I interferon, which is also associated with the activation of pathways as Notch signaling and B lymphocyte-related modules. Furthermore, the authors identified that patients undergoing treatment for visceral leishmaniasis exhibit a positive regulation of modules related to B lymphocytes and neutrophils, whereas patients with asymptomatic infection exhibit a negative regulation of modules related to neutrophils and monocytes. These findings suggest that treatment of visceral leishmaniasis patients might function by restoring a balance to adaptive responses.
In social systems, cooperative behavior is often observed, where individuals work together to achieve a common goal. However, in some social systems, exploitative individuals can perform fewer cooperative behaviors while still reaping the benefits obtained from others' cooperative behavior. This has been observed in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. D. discoideum is a model system for studying the evolution of social behavior, where it forms fruiting bodies composed of dead stalk cells and spores. Different genotypes will aggregate to produce a chimeric fruiting body, resulting in potential social conflict over who will contribute to the reproductive sporehead and who will sacrifice themselves to produce the dead stalk. D. discoideum has been shown to exhibit widespread variation in the total numbers of cells allocated to spores when developed clonally. This has been termed a “fixed” strategy because it reflects inherent differences in allocation patterns among isolates. However, genotypes often show dramatic shifts in spore:stalk allocation in chimera (from that expected based on clonal allocations), which are highly variable and dependent on the precise pairing of genotypes or social partner. These changes in behavior have been termed “facultative” strategies as they produce a remarkable range of behaviors. The evolution and maintenance of cooperation in D. discoideum is therefore characterized by conflict between the self-interests of cooperating individuals. This social conflict can lead to the evolution of complex social strategies and counterstrategies that exploit the cooperative behavior of others while minimizing the costs of cooperation. Here we show that the complex social behavior of D. discoideum can be generated through a simple mechanism based on the production and response to social signals that govern developmental differentiation in this system.
The secretion of proteins is a highly regulated process. However, the mechanisms that control protein secretion are poorly understood. In this study, we identified a common cis-acting element (SECReTE) that is present in the coding regions of all mRNAs encoding secreted membrane proteins (mSMPs). SECReTE is enriched in mSMPs and is more abundant in mRNAs that are not encoded with a signal sequence, which is necessary for membrane localization. SECReTE is also found in the 3’UTR of mRNAs and is more abundant in human mRNAs than in yeast. SECReTE motifs can be found in prokaryotic as well as eukaryotic organisms and is present in secretome mRNAs from bacteria to humans. SECReTE enrichment in mSMPs is not dependent upon the presence of TMDs and SECReTE is enriched in both signal peptide-encoded and signal peptide-independent mSMPs. SECReTE is also enriched in mRNAs that are not encoded with a signal sequence, which implies that SECReTE may also affect the localization of mRNAs to the ER. SECReTE enrichment in mSMPs is important for protein production and secretion, as it increases the amount of secreted protein and its rate of secretion. SECReTE is enriched in mSMPs in a manner that is independent of the presence of TMDs.
The yellow fever mosquito Aedes aegypti is a vector for dengue, Zika, and chikungunya. It is also the primary vector for the virus that causes yellow fever, which has re-emerged in many regions. A. aegypti is a domestic mosquito that has spread throughout most of the tropical and subtropical world, often via human transportation systems. California was thought to be free of A. aegypti until 2013, when it was detected in Fresno, Madera, and San Mateo counties. A. aegypti is now found in 96 cities and census designated places in California. We show that the populations in Northern California are likely to have originated from the South Central US, while the populations in Southern California are likely to have originated from the Southwest US/northern Mexico. We also show that A. aegypti populations in California are less genetically diverse than populations in other parts of the US. This has important implications for vector control efforts.
Biofuels are a promising solution to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transportation. The genetic and biochemical understanding of microbes that can produce oil from waste products is essential for designing next-generation biofuels. The genome of Rhodococcus opacus PD630 was sequenced to identify genes that could be used for engineering next-generation biofuels. The genome of Rhodococcus opacus PD630 was sequenced to identify genes that could be used for engineering next-generation biofuels. Rhodococcus opacus PD630 is a soil-dwelling microbe that accumulates a large fraction of its cellular dry weight in oil. The genome sequence of Rhodococcus opacus PD630 was used to identify a set of genes that are important for lipid metabolism. The study of these genes allowed the development of a multigenic model of Rhodococcus metabolism that is able to predict the functions of genes that are important for lipid metabolism. The model also identified the genes that are responsible for the production of the unusual straight-chain odd-carbon lipids. The study of Rhodococcus opacus PD630 demonstrates that the genome sequence of a microbe can be used to understand the metabolism of that microbe and to identify genes that are important for engineering next-generation biofuels.
Recent advances in DNA sequencing have allowed scientists to examine the relationship between evolution and genomic composition. In particular, DNA sequencing has made it possible to examine the relationship between DNA composition and the size of an organism's genome. This has allowed researchers to discover that prokaryotic DNA composition is different in coding and non-coding regions. The researchers found that coding regions have a more random composition than non-coding regions, and that genomes with a high GC content have a more homogeneous composition. The findings from this research have important implications for understanding the evolution of bacteria and the development of antibiotics.
Insertion of foreign DNA into mammalian genomes may have unintended consequences beyond the site of the mutation. We show that targeted gene deletion in mice can result in a 6.7% frequency of disrupting regulatory elements in the targeted gene and 58.6% frequency of disrupting intragenic regulatory elements in the 29 deletion mutants. In contrast, 97% of the 15 targeted gene mutants with RNA-seq data were correctly targeted. In addition, 59% of the deletion mutants had at least one up-regulated gene within 500 kb of the targeted gene, while 7% of the targeted gene mutants had at least one down-regulated gene within 500 kb of the targeted gene. These data suggest that local effects of targeting on gene regulation may occur at a high frequency in regions of high gene density.
The mab-3/doublesex/dmrt1 genes are the most evolutionarily conserved key regulators of the earliest phases of gonad development. Dmrt1 is a transcriptional regulator of gonad development and is also required for the maintenance of the adult gonad. Dmrt1 is required for the maintenance of the adult gonad in the somatic cells of the gonad. Despite its well-characterized crucial functions for gonad development in many vertebrates, the mechanisms that regulate the complex temporal and spatial expression pattern and guarantee precise levels of dmrt1 transcripts are only barely understood. Here, we show that the dmrt1 11-nucleotide cis-regulatory D3U-Box motif is a target for two antagonizing RNA binding proteins, Oryzias latipes CUG-binding protein (Ol-cug-bp) and Oryzias latipes Bicoid Stability Factor (Ol-bsf), both involved in either RNA stabilization in germ cells or degradation in the soma. Moreover, we find that the expression of Ol-bsf is highly dynamic during embryonic development and is restricted to the germ cells of the developing gonad. In adult medaka, Ol-bsf is expressed in germ cells and germline stem cells, suggesting an evolutionarily conserved function that is not restricted to exclusive regulation of dmrt1.
Understanding the egg stage of mosquitoes is important for controlling disease transmission. Mosquitoes lay their eggs in water collections, and after hatching, the larvae enter the water to continue their development. The eggs are white and during early embryogenesis, they are prone to losing water, which can lead to dehydration and death. The eggshell is composed of three layers: the exochorion, an outermost layer; the endochorion, the innermost layer; and the serosal cuticle, an extraembryonic membrane that forms at the end of embryogenesis. The serosal cuticle protects the egg from water loss. The serosal cuticle is an extracellular matrix; located below the endochorion, becomes the third and innermost eggshell layer. Its formation considerably reduces water passage through the eggshell, preventing eggs to shrink due to desiccation and prompting eggs to maintain their viability outside the water. Chitin content is directly related to the desiccation resistance of mosquito eggs. The level of egg resistance to desiccation varies among mosquito species at the end of embryogenesis. Physical and biochemical features of these eggs were investigated in order to identify traits associated with these differences. The results of this study contribute to the understanding of insect egg coloration evolution.
The purpose of the study is to test the hypothesis that infection with helminths increases susceptibility to HIV-1 infection. The study was conducted using rhesus macaques infected with a clade C simian-human immunodeficiency virus (SHIV-C) and exposed to the virus intrarectally. The presence of Schistosoma mansoni infection significantly increased the susceptibility to HIV-1 infection. The study provides the first direct evidence that helminth infections increase susceptibility to HIV-1 infection in a primate model. The results suggest that controlling schistosomiasis and other helminth infections may help reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS in developing countries where these infections are endemic.
Embryonic development in multicellular organisms is highly reproducible. However, it remains unclear how noise affects developmental reproducibility. We addressed this issue through computational modeling, especially focusing on vertebrate somitogenesis as a model biological system. We found that the clock-independent mechanism of irregular somite formation occurs in the absence of the clock, as a consequence of the intrinsic noise. However, the presence of the clock reduces the irregularity of somite formation. Our results suggest that the segmentation clock plays an important role in suppressing the noise effect to achieve reproducible somite formation.
The three-dimensional structure of a protein plays a crucial role in its function. The structure of the protein determines the binding of molecules and the movement of the protein under physiological conditions. However, it is not clear how the structure of the protein influences the binding of molecules and the dynamics of the protein under physiological conditions. In the present study, we have investigated the role of protein structure in its function by analyzing the dynamics of a protein in different oligomeric states. We found that the structure of the protein determines the dynamics of the protein in different oligomeric states. For instance, the structure of the protein determines the type of movements of the protein that are accessible in the different oligomeric states. This suggests that the structure of the protein plays a crucial role in the function of the protein.
Rabies is a major zoonotic disease that is responsible for an estimated 55,000 deaths annually. The virus is endemic in dogs in many developing countries, and the dogs are the main source of infection for humans. Despite the importance of dogs as vectors for human rabies, little is known about the spatial and temporal dynamics of rabies in this major reservoir species. We used a recently developed probabilistic approach to determine the spatial and temporal dynamics of dog rabies virus transmission from a large-scale gene sequence study. Our analysis revealed that the virus is restricted to a relatively small geographic area in Morocco and Algeria, but can occasionally spread to other countries at relatively long distances. These findings provide essential new information on the transmission dynamics of rabies in Africa and will greatly assist in future intervention strategies.
The 2014 FIFA World Cup will be held in Brazil, the country with the highest number of dengue cases reported annually over the past decade. We used historical data on dengue transmission to estimate the risk of dengue during the World Cup. Our analysis indicates that the risk of dengue during the World Cup will be relatively low. However, it is expected that 26 to 53 symptomatic dengue cases will occur among 600,000 tourists visiting Brazil during the World Cup. The risk of dengue among teams will be low as well. We conclude that the risk of dengue transmission during the World Cup will be low but it will be important to be prepared for possible outbreaks.
The obesity epidemic is one of the most pressing health issues in the world. As a result, there is an urgent need for effective and safe treatments to treat obesity. The most promising therapeutic approach is to increase energy expenditure by recruiting brown fat cells, which are metabolically active cells that burn fat to produce heat. However, the molecular mechanisms of brown fat cell recruitment are not well understood. In this study, we aimed to identify the key molecular regulators involved in the differentiation of brown fat cells. We first performed a comprehensive analysis of the epigenetic and transcriptomic landscapes of brown fat cells and found that the expression of key brown fat cell markers and the differentiation process are both dynamic and stage-specific. We then performed a comprehensive bioinformatics analysis of the epigenomic and transcriptomic profiles of brown fat cells and identified a number of potential regulators. Through functional studies, we validated that the kinase PIM1, the transcription factor RREB1, and the homeobox transcription factor SOX13 are required for the differentiation and function of brown fat cells. Our findings provide a comprehensive understanding of the molecular mechanisms of brown fat cell differentiation and the identification of potential therapeutic targets for the recruitment of thermogenic fat cells.
Paracoccidioidomycosis (PCM) is a chronic fungal infection that is prevalent mostly in South America. The diagnosis of PCM is based on the demonstration of the fungus in the clinical samples or the isolation of the fungus in culture medium. However, the culture of P. brasiliensis can take several weeks. Therefore, serological tests have been established as a rapid, simple and inexpensive tool for the diagnosis and follow up of PCM. However, the performance of these tests is not routinely checked, in part due to the lack of external standards. The aim of this study was to evaluate the performance of the serological diagnosis of PCM in reference centers in Brazil. The results show that there are inconsistencies among the laboratories, strong enough to result in conflicting information regarding the patient's treatment, and that renewed efforts should be promoted to improve standardization of the serological diagnosis of PCM.
Hookworm-related cutaneous larva migrans (CLM) is a parasitic skin disease caused by the migration of larvae in the epidermis. It is common in developing countries with hot climates. In resource-poor settings, CLM is associated with considerable morbidity. Patients with CLM are characterized by a strong pruritus, which is often accompanied by sleep disturbance, daytime somnolence, and social exclusion. In resource-poor settings, CLM is a neglected disease. In resource-poor settings, CLM is associated with considerable morbidity. The psychosocial consequences of CLM have never been investigated. In this study, we investigated the impairment of skin disease-associated life quality in patients with CLM in a semi-quantitative manner. We found that 94.5% of patients with CLM reported reduction of their skin disease-associated life quality with a median mDLQI score of 5. The degree of skin disease-associated life quality impairment was positively correlated with the intensity of the infection, the number of body areas affected, and the presence of lesions at clearly visible body parts. The most common finding associated with an impairment of skin disease-associated life quality was pruritus (93.4% of the patients). A single dose of ivermectin caused a complete resolution of the lesions within one month and restored skin disease-associated life quality to the normal level.
American Visceral leishmaniasis is a tropical disease caused by the infection of Leishmania infantum. The disease is transmitted through the bite of infected female sand flies, specifically the Lutzomyia longipalpis species. Although control measures have been applied to reduce the incidence of American Visceral leishmaniasis in some countries, the disease continues to be a public health problem in others. Understanding the bionomic parameters of vector populations is critical for comprehending the transmission dynamics of American Visceral leishmaniasis and evaluating prevention and control measures. In this study we estimated the survival rate, population dispersal and duration of the gonotrophic cycle of a population of the Lutzomyia longipalpis complex in Brazil. The results of the study indicate a high survival rate and low population dispersal of the Lutzomyia longipalpis complex. The high survival rate of the population could contribute to the reduction of the surviving vector population indirectly by reducing the host biting rate. The low dispersal observed suggests that environmental management could contribute to the reduction of vector density, as it can restrict the movement and spread of the Lutzomyia longipalpis complex. The data obtained in this study provides the first estimates of vector survival rates for populations of the sibling species Lu. longipalpis under natural conditions. This information can be applied in the evaluation of prevention and control measures.
Commensal bacteria are beneficial microorganisms that reside in the intestine and other body surfaces. The intestinal epithelium, a layer of cells that lines the intestine, is responsible for the immune response to commensal bacteria. However, the mechanisms by which the epithelium distinguishes commensal bacteria from pathogenic bacteria are not well understood. Here, we show that intestinal epithelial cells can detect the type III secretion system (TTSS) of enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC), a common pathogen that causes intestinal infections. The TTSS is used by EPEC to inject effector proteins into host cells, which inhibit the epithelial cells’ immune response. The epithelial cells respond to this inhibition by activating a novel signaling pathway, which leads to activation of a protein called NF-κB. This activation is dependent on the active TTSS and is not mediated by a specific effector protein. Our findings provide a mechanism by which the epithelium distinguishes between commensal and pathogenic bacteria.
RNA is a critical player in many biological processes, including cancer. Engineered proteins that bind specifically to specific RNAs could be used to target cancerous cells. However, the design of such proteins is challenging due to the complexity of RNA binding and the need for high selectivity and affinity. Here, we investigate the RNA-binding motif of Rbfox, a protein that is involved in the oncogenic process of pre-miR21. We show that the mutant protein is able to bind to pre-miR20b, a non-cancerous RNA, with higher affinity and selectivity than the wild type. We also use molecular dynamics simulations to predict the structural determinants of the binding interface and to design a mutant with improved affinity and selectivity for pre-miR21.
Schistosomes are flatworms that infect over 240 million people worldwide. They are present in the bloodstreams of their mammalian hosts and are responsible for schistosomiasis, a chronic disease. Schistosomes produce bioactive proteins that can manipulate host physiology, but the molecular mechanisms of their effects are not well understood. Here, we report the biochemical and enzymatic characterization of SmSP2, the most abundantly expressed serine protease in the blood-dwelling stages of the human schistosome, S. mansoni. We show that SmSP2 is a trypsin-like protease that hydrolyzes a range of host proteins and peptides. The enzyme is incapable of cleaving macromolecular substrates such as hemoglobin, serum albumin, and immunoglobulin G, but it processes the blood clot component fibronectin, activates plasminogen, and releases bradykinin from its precursor high molecular weight kininogen. We propose that SmSP2 modulates the host-parasite interaction at multiple levels and may be a potential drug or vaccine target.
γδ T cells are a unique subset of lymphocytes that play a role in the protection against pathogens. The role of γδ T cells has been particularly investigated in the context of Human Cytomegalovirus (HCMV) infection.
Plasmodium parasites are responsible for malaria, a disease that affects more than 500 million people annually. These parasites are transmitted to humans by the bite of infected mosquitoes. Once inside the human body, they multiply and cause disease by invading red blood cells and liver cells. Plasmodium parasites produce proteases, which are enzymes that break down proteins. These proteases are essential for the parasite's ability to invade and survive in its host. In this study, we have investigated the role of a specific protease inhibitor in the life cycle of the Plasmodium parasite. We have found that the protease inhibitor is essential for the parasite to invade the salivary glands of mosquitoes and to infect liver cells of mice. The protease inhibitor is produced by the parasite and is secreted to the outside of the parasite. This suggests that the protease inhibitor is not only important for the parasite's ability to invade its host but also for its ability to survive outside of the host. Our findings provide new insights into the role of protease inhibitors in the life cycle of Plasmodium parasites.
Understanding how cells differentiate and develop into specific cell types is a major challenge in biology. This process is controlled by a complex interplay of gene expression and chromatin dynamics. In mammals, the histone H2A.Z is a specialized variant that plays a key role in mammalian development. However, little is known about the role of H2A.Z in mammalian development. Here, we show that H2A.Z is required for proper differentiation of mammalian embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and that this process involves the unique acidic patch domain of the histone. We also show that the unique H2A.Z acidic patch is necessary for the formation of specialized chromatin states and that H2A.Z dynamics is critical for the regulation of gene expression during ESC differentiation.
The study of stem cell dynamics is a major area of research in biology. It is essential to understand how stem cells develop, how they differentiate into specialized cells, and how they contribute to tissue dynamics. The study of stem cell dynamics in vivo is challenging, since it requires the presence of specific markers that can be used to track the lineage of stem cells. In this study, we developed a method that utilizes somatic mutations accumulated during the mouse's life to reconstruct cell lineage trees. The method was applied to the intestinal epithelium, since its stem cells have been extensively studied, and various tracing methods have provided insights into their dynamics. We found that the colon is constituted by a few distinct progenitors and that there is no evidence for hematopoietic renewal of the intestinal epithelium during adulthood. Our findings indicate that the colon is constituted by a few distinct progenitors and that there is no evidence for hematopoietic renewal of the intestinal epithelium during adulthood. Our method was first used to confirm that monoclonal conversion occurs in crypt stem cells, and that these cells do not incorporate an immortal strand. This validation of our method is followed by the use of the lineage tree reconstruction to generate new information about crypt stem cells.
HIV is a lifelong infection. As a result, antiretroviral therapy (ART) is a lifelong commitment for HIV treatment. Despite the effectiveness of ART, HIV remains in the body even after long-term therapy. Therefore, HIV persists during treatment and reappears if therapy is stopped. The goal is to prevent virus rebound and eliminate HIV persistence. New eradication therapies are being developed to prevent virus rebound and eliminate HIV persistence. The goal is to prevent virus rebound and eliminate HIV persistence. The researchers used bone marrow/liver/thymus (BLT) humanized mice to measure persistent HIV during ART. The BLT mice were treated with a triple combination antiretroviral drug regimen that included the nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF), the nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor emtricitabine (FTC) and the integrase inhibitor raltegravir (RAL). The study found that the systemic penetration of antiretroviral drugs into different organs throughout the body was sufficient to reduce the number of cells producing HIV. However, HIV persists during ART in every organ analyzed. HIV-infected cells persisting during ART represent suitable targets for cytotoxic HIV-specific immunotherapies such as the 3B3-PE38 immunotoxin.
Dengue is a major public health problem in many developing countries. The purpose of this study was to assess the sensitivity and specificity of two commercial NS1 tests in the context of different viral serotypes, viral burdens and clinical presentations in Vietnamese patients. The results indicate that both the Platelia ELISA and NS1-LFRT are specific tools for diagnosing acute dengue. The sensitivity of both tests was influenced by the patient's duration of illness prior to study entry. NS1 detection was a robust diagnostic test in DENV-1 and DENV-3 infections, but was less sensitive in DENV-2 infections in part because test samples from these patients were generally more likely to have a concomitant DENV-IgG response, suggestive of secondary infection, and lower viraemias, all of which are associated with reduced NS1 detection.
Answer: Around 59,000 human deaths annually. Question: Which region experiences a large proportion of rabies-related deaths? Answer: Sub Saharan Africa (SSA). Question: What is the recommended vaccination rate for the dog population to eliminate rabies? Answer: At least 70% of the dog population. Question: What kind of vaccination approach is commonly used in Sub Saharan Africa? Answer: Static point (SP) vaccination approaches. Question: What is one drawback of static point vaccination campaigns? Answer: They often result in low vaccination coverage. Question: What factors influence attendance at SPs? Answer: Distance from home to SPs. Question: What information is necessary to improve attendance at SPs? Answer: Timely and accurate information about upcoming campaigns, importance of vaccinating puppies, and ways to improve dog handling. Question: How can mass vaccination programs become more feasible? Answer: By understanding and addressing barriers to attendance at SPs. Question: What is an alternative to the expensive and logistically challenging door-to-door programs? Answer: Implementation of feasible mass vaccination programs. Question: Which specific city was analyzed in the study? Answer: Blantyre city, Malawi.
Tsetse flies are blood-sucking insects that transmit African sleeping sickness and African animal trypanosomiasis. Both diseases are transmitted to mammals by tsetse flies. The diseases are caused by parasites that are transmitted to the mammalian host through the saliva of infected flies. Tsetse flies are vectors for both African sleeping sickness and African animal trypanosomiasis.
Visceral leishmaniasis is a severe disease caused by two Leishmania species, L. infantum and L. donovani. The current treatments for visceral leishmaniasis are toxic and have variable efficacy, which has led to the development of drug resistance. The current work describes the discovery of two antileishmanial compounds from actinobacteria associated to fungus-growing ants. The two compounds were identified in bacterial cultures isolated from fungus-growing ants. The antileishmanial activity of the compounds was evaluated against promastigotes and intracellular amastigotes of L. donovani. The results demonstrate that the compounds are effective against L. donovani and show a good selectivity index against human macrophages. The antileishmanial activity of the compounds is of great interest for the treatment of visceral leishmaniasis.
Trypanosomes are single-celled organisms transmitted by the bite of the tsetse fly. They cause sleeping sickness in humans and infect other mammals. Two subspecies of trypanosomes are responsible for human infection: T. b. brucei, which causes sleeping sickness in West and Central Africa, and T. b. rhodesiense, which causes sleeping sickness in East and Southern Africa. T. b. rhodesiense is thought to be a clonal population that does not infect humans. However, it has been shown that T. b. rhodesiense can survive in human serum, a feat that is not shared by most trypanosomes. In this study, the researchers examined the genetic diversity of T. b. rhodesiense in humans and in tsetse flies, in order to understand how this subspecies evolved. The results suggest that T. b. rhodesiense has evolved the ability to survive in human serum. The researchers also found that the population of T. b. rhodesiense in humans is not clonal, but rather it has a high degree of genetic diversity. This suggests that the subspecies has evolved the ability to survive in human serum in order to spread more efficiently. The researchers also found that T. b. rhodesiense can exchange genetic material with other trypanosomes in the tsetse fly, which could lead to the spread of drug resistance. This research provides important insights into the evolution of T. b. rhodesiense and its ability to infect humans.
The brain is able to perform a wide range of cognitive tasks, from perceiving and interpreting sensory information to remembering and learning. These cognitive processes rely on the connections between neurons in the brain. These connections are made up of axons and dendrites, which are the long and short extensions of neurons, respectively. The connections between neurons are made by synapses, which are the sites where axons and dendrites connect to each other. The strength of these synaptic connections can change over time, and this process is known as synaptic plasticity. There are many different types of synaptic plasticity, but one of the most well-known is called spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP). STDP is a learning mechanism that is triggered by the synchronized activity of neurons. In STDP, the strength of the synaptic connections between neurons is increased if the neurons are active at the same time, and decreased if they are not. This learning mechanism is thought to be important for learning and memory. However, how it is used in the brain is not well understood. In this study, we investigated how STDP could be used to learn and remember the patterns of neuronal activity that occur in the brain. We considered a network of neurons that receives input from the sensory environment. The neurons in the network respond to these inputs by firing spikes, and the spikes are synchronized with the inputs. We found that STDP can select the axonal delays of the synaptic connections, and this can be used to learn the frequency of the inputs. This result is consistent with the fact that the brain is able to learn and remember the frequency of sounds. We also found that STDP can select the axonal delays of the connections between different groups of neurons, and this can be used to learn the time lag between the inputs. This result is consistent with the fact that the brain is able to learn and remember the time lag between the inputs. Finally, we found that STDP can select the axonal and dendritic delays of the connections within a group of neurons, and this can be used to learn the phase difference between the inputs. This result is consistent with the fact that the brain is able to learn and remember the phase difference between the inputs. These results show that STDP is a powerful mechanism for learning and remembering the patterns of neuronal activity that occur in the brain.
Zoonotic visceral leishmaniasis (ZVL) is a neglected disease that affects both humans and dogs. The main reservoir for ZVL is the dog population. In Brazil, the main control measure has been the culling of sero-positive dogs, though this method is highly controversial. In this study, we propose the use of systemic insecticides in dogs as an alternative control measure for L. infantum transmission. Mathematical modelling showed that significant reductions in human incidence of infection could be achieved by community-wide use of systemic insecticides in dogs. The model allows estimating the minimum requirements of the systemic insecticide (efficacy and duration) and the intervention (dog treatment coverage) to significantly reduce L. infantum infections in humans.
The parasite proteins that mediate molecular interactions between the invading parasite and erythrocytes are localized in membrane-bound organelles called micronemes and rhoptries. The parasite proteins that mediate molecular interactions are localized in membrane-bound internal organelles called micronemes and rhoptries, located at the apical end of Plasmodium merozoites. The clinical symptoms of malaria are attributed to the blood stage of the parasite life cycle, specifically the invasion and multiplication of Plasmodium merozoites within host erythrocytes. The invasion process involves the binding of the parasite to host erythrocytes followed by the release of parasite proteins that mediate molecular interactions with host erythrocytes. The parasite proteins that mediate molecular interactions are localized in membrane-bound internal organelles called micronemes and rhoptries, located at the apical end of Plasmodium merozoites.
Tumors have abnormal blood vessels, which are leaky and tortuous. This abnormality results in insufficient blood supply and high fluid pressure inside the tumor. The high pressure inside the tumor causes poor drug delivery to the tumor center. Therefore, it is crucial to find a way to improve drug delivery in tumors. In this study, we propose a mathematical model that simulates tumor growth and the effects of antiangiogenic drugs on tumor vessels. We show that antiangiogenic drugs can reduce the fluid pressure inside the tumor, which enables the delivery of drugs to the tumor center.
Dendritic cells are specialized sentinels of the immune system that can detect and capture antigens and present them to naïve T cells. Dendritic cells are also important for the dissemination of HIV-1 in the body, but the mechanisms by which HIV-1 subverts the functions of dendritic cells are not well understood. Here, we show that HIV-1 particles are captured by dendritic cells and transferred to T cells through a novel mechanism that involves a sialic acid binding protein, CD169. Our findings provide a novel mechanism for HIV-1 to disseminate in the body and suggest a potential target for the development of new antiviral therapies.
The formation of bone around a cartilage template is the predominant process in humans.
Severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome (SFTS) is an emerging hemorrhagic fever caused by a tick-borne phlebovirus. SFTSV was first isolated from a patient in Jiangsu province in the Eastern China in 2007. The virus was detected in ticks, domestic animals, and small wild mammals in the endemic region. SFTSV-RNA was detected in unfed larvae of Haemaphysalis longicornis, indicating that SFTSV could be vertically transmitted in nature. Viral RNA was also detected in wild birds captured during the tick-feeding season. The findings of this study provide insight into viral ecology of SFTSV in ticks and small wild mammals, and suggest that small mammals and migratory birds may act as amplifying hosts for SFTSV.
The current understanding of host-pathogen interactions in the ocean is derived from experiments carried out at the population level. However, such studies are often unable to capture the intricate heterogeneity of microbial populations. Here, we use a single-cell approach to study host-pathogen interactions in the cosmopolitan alga Emiliania huxleyi, which is commonly found in ocean blooms. We show that individual cells of E. huxleyi exhibit high variability in viral gene expression and we use this variability to map cells into their infection state. We further show that the infection state of cells is closely related to their metabolic state and that susceptible cells exhibit a unique metabolic signature that can be used to identify resistant cells. We demonstrate that the infection dynamics in the ocean can be mapped on a single-cell level and that the ability to track host-virus dynamics at the single-cell resolution can provide valuable insights into the ecological impact of marine viruses and their role in regulating the fate of algal blooms in the ocean.
The function of a protein is often inferred from its network neighborhood. However, the network neighborhood is highly dynamic and context-specific. Here, we show that the network neighborhood can be used to predict functional changes in a tumor. Specifically, we use a network diffusion approach to quantify the functional activity of a gene in a tumor sample and show that this approach is able to identify functions that are significantly gained or lost in cancer relative to normal tissues. Moreover, we show that this approach can be used to predict patient survival and identify known clinical subtypes of breast cancer.
Influenza A virus (IAV) is a major pathogen of wild bird populations. Subtype diversity of IAV is extensive in wild bird populations. In the present study, we investigated the mechanisms of heterosubtypic immunity in ducks and the outcomes of subsequent infections. We found that heterosubtypic immunity induced by pre-exposure to different IAV subtypes conferred partial protection against infection with heterologous subtypes. These results have implications for wild bird populations where IAV subtypes are co-circulating and may contribute to the high degree of antigenic diversity observed in wild bird populations.
Horizontal gene transfer (HGT) is a fundamental mechanism for bacteria to exchange genetic material. HGT can occur by different mechanisms, including natural competence, phage-related chromosomal islands, and conjugation. Conjugation is a process by which one plasmid is transferred from a donor cell to a recipient cell. In the past, the conjugation mechanisms of plasmids from Gram-negative bacteria have been well characterized. However, little is known about the conjugation mechanisms of plasmids from Gram-positive bacteria. In this study we studied the conjugation mechanism of a plasmid present in Bacillus subtilis, a Gram-positive bacterium that is commonly found in nature and is a gut commensal in animals and humans. We show that conjugation of this plasmid is not induced by the recipient cells. Instead, conjugation is induced by an anti-repressor protein encoded by a plasmid-encoded gene, which is inhibited by a signaling peptide encoded by a gene located immediately upstream of the anti-repressor. The anti-repressor protein is encoded by a gene that is inhibited by the signaling peptide. Our results show that the signaling peptide is a quorum-sensing molecule that regulates the activity of the anti-repressor, and thus the conjugation genes.
The dengue virus is transmitted by the Aedes aegypti mosquito. The mosquito is susceptible to dengue virus infection, but not all mosquitoes are equally susceptible. This difference in susceptibility is not well understood. We used a genome-wide transcriptome analysis to study gene expression patterns in susceptible and refractory mosquito strains following dengue virus infection. The analysis showed that A. aegypti genes show transcriptional responses in a modular manner at early infection periods, wherein groups of genes are expressed in a tightly correlated manner. This study was performed in accordance with the recommendations in the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals of the National Institutes of Health. The animal use protocol was approved by the University of Notre Dame Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (Study # 11-036). The A. aegypti strains Moyo-S (MS) and Moyo-R (MR) are sub-strains of the Moyo-in-Dry (MD) strain that was collected indoors from Shauri Moyo, near Mombasa, Kenya. The D2S3 strain was selected for high oral susceptibility to DENV-2 infection under our conditions. Although not selected for DENV susceptibility, the sub-strains also show significant differences in mean DENV serotype 2 (DENV-2) infection rates with ∼20% in one (MR: DENV-2 refractory) and ∼57% in the other (MS: DENV-2 susceptible) strains, while the original MD strain shows natural low DENV infection rates of ∼13% (unpublished data). The D2S3 strain was selected for high oral susceptibility to DENV-2 infection under our conditions. A. aegypti females were fed with a DENV-2 strain and the blood meals were collected at 3 and 18 hours post-infection. Total RNA was extracted from the infected and control females and used for gene expression analysis. Our data show that A. aegypti genes show transcriptional responses in a modular manner at early infection periods, wherein groups of genes are expressed in a tightly correlated manner. This study was performed in accordance with the recommendations in the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals of the National Institutes of Health. The animal use protocol was approved by the University of Notre Dame Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (Study # 11-036).
Answer: Loa loa.
The conflict between replication and transcription is an important feature of genome organization. This conflict is minimized by orienting transcription and replication in the same direction. We report that this co-orientation bias is highly conserved in nature and has evolved to avoid the detrimental effects of head-on transcription on replication. In the bacterium Bacillus subtilis, head-on transcription slows down replication, and this effect is more pronounced in rich medium. We engineered new strains with the transcription-replication bias reversed over an extended segment of the genome or a localized region containing rRNA operons. We found that replication is strongly disrupted in the inversion strains in rich medium, leading to DNA damage responses, cell death, and sensitivity to genotoxic agents. We also observed that mutation of the rpoB gene, which is transcribed head-on, is elevated in the inversion strains. Our results suggest that the conflict between replication and transcription has contributed to the evolution of the genome-wide co-orientation bias and its further enrichment in highly-expressed and essential genes.
Answer: > 200 million people. Question: How many genes are present in the genome sequence of the schistosome parasite? Answer: > 10,000 genes. Question: What is the causative agent of HIV/AIDS? Answer: The retrovirus HIV-1. Question: How was the genome of Schistosoma mansoni manipulated in the lab? Answer: Using a lab-modified form of HIV-1. Question: Where were the chromosomal insertions of HIV-1 mapped within the schistosome? Answer: They were distributed throughout the chromosomes, including the sex chromosomes. Question: What significant discovery was made regarding HIV-1 and S. mansoni cells? Answer: HIV-1 was found to be active within the cells of S. mansoni. Question: What potential does the discovery of HIV-1 integration into the schistosome genome hold? Answer: It opens up possibilities for investigating new therapies for schistosomiasis.
Leptospirosis is a widespread disease caused by the bacterium Leptospira. The bacteria are found in water and can cause severe illness in humans, including death. Leptospira is often found in rat urine, which is why rats are thought to be the primary carriers of the disease. The bacteria can survive in water for several weeks, which is why they are able to spread the disease to humans. Leptospira are able to survive in humans by colonizing the kidneys and causing inflammation and damage. The bacteria can also cause inflammation in other organs, including the liver and lungs. The inflammation can cause severe illness, including death. The bacteria are able to persist within the kidneys of infected humans for several weeks, which is why they are able to spread the disease to other humans. The bacteria can also cause long-term kidney damage. Despite the seriousness of the disease, there is no vaccine available for preventing leptospirosis. There is also no effective treatment for the disease, other than antibiotics. The bacteria are difficult to kill with antibiotics because they are able to survive in the kidneys for long periods of time. This makes it difficult to treat the disease effectively. Leptospira are able to survive within the kidneys of humans by modifying their proteins. This makes the bacteria harder to detect by the immune system, which makes it difficult to develop a vaccine. The bacteria also use this mechanism to evade the immune system. The bacteria are able to persist in the kidneys of infected humans for several weeks, which is why they are able to spread the disease to other humans. This makes the disease difficult to control. The bacteria are also able to survive in water for several weeks, which makes it difficult to eliminate the bacteria from water sources. The ability of Leptospira to persist in the kidneys and water sources is a major problem for humans. The bacteria are able to survive within the kidneys of humans for several weeks, which makes it difficult to treat the disease effectively. The bacteria are able to persist in water sources for several weeks, which makes it difficult to eliminate the bacteria from water sources.
CD8 T cells are important for providing protection against many pathogens and tumours. CD8 T cells are also able to rapidly respond to new infections, even if they have previously been exposed to a similar infection. The host’s ability to accommodate the development of large numbers of new CD8 T cells at different points in time remains unclear. Here we show that the host is able to support the development of large populations of inflating CD8 T cells at the same time as a second infection, without any cost to the size of the existing or newly developing effector memory populations. We also show that some infections can cause depletion of the existing memory T cell pool.
Sexual dimorphisms are a fascinating feature of many animal species, and have been the focus of biological research for centuries. Many examples of sexually dimorphic traits are found in insects, including the giant mandibles of male stag beetles. In this study, we investigate the developmental mechanisms of sex-specific mandible growth in the stag beetle Cyclommatus metallifer, and find that sex-specific expression of the doublesex gene (CmDsx) is a critical factor in determining mandible growth. We show that knockdown of the CmDsx gene in males causes mandibles to grow more slowly and in females, the mandibles to grow more rapidly. We also find that the expression of the CmDsx gene is regulated by juvenile hormone (JH), a hormone that is known to regulate mandible growth in stag beetles. Our results suggest that sex-specific mandible growth is regulated by a complex interplay between the sex-determination pathway and endocrine signaling.
Mitochondrial dysfunction and reduced insulin secretion are key features of Type 2 diabetes (T2D). We used a screening approach to identify genes that regulate mitochondrial dysfunction and reduced insulin secretion in human T2D islets. We identified RCAN1, a gene that is overexpressed in T2D islets and when overexpressed in mouse β-cells reduces glucose-stimulated insulin secretion. We show that RCAN1 overexpression reduces mitochondrial ATP production and inhibits mitochondrial function. We also show that RCAN1 methylation is reduced in T2D β-cells and that this reduction correlates with increased RCAN1 expression. This approach identified a single candidate gene that is capable of causing mitochondrial dysfunction and reduced insulin secretion in human T2D β-cells.
Rabies is a zoonotic disease caused by lyssaviruses. The lyssavirus family is one of 18 currently known virus families within the order Mononegavirales. The most comprehensive analysis in this respect investigated the evolutionary history of RABV by contributing 170 newly generated full genome sequences. However, the increasing number of available RABV sequences represents a challenge for conventional computation of phylogenetic inferences. In this study, an extended panel of existing and newly obtained full genome RABV sequences was used to demonstrate the application of Affinity Propagation (AP) clustering for RABV clustering and the results compared with previous studies. AP is a non-hierarchical clustering method that was developed for clustering similarity measures between all pairs of input samples based on the concept of "message passing" between data points. The method does not require a vector space structure and so called ‘exemplars’, samples that are most representative for a cluster, are chosen among the observed data samples and not computed as hypothetical averages of cluster samples. The results showed that AP can provide an independent method to resolve questions regarding classification of lyssaviruses into species.
The myelin sheath in the central nervous system is responsible for rapid conduction of nerve signals. It is produced by oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system and Schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system. Oligodendrocytes and Schwann cells have similar functions in the central nervous system, but their development and differentiation are not identical. The regulatory networks involved in the terminal differentiation of these cells are not yet fully understood. In this study, we analyze the regulatory network of oligodendrocytes. We show that the transcription factor Myrf is essential for oligodendrocyte differentiation and myelination. Myrf is regulated by Sox10, a transcription factor that is also required for Schwann cell differentiation and myelination. Once Myrf is induced by Sox10, it interacts physically and functionally with Sox10 to activate the expression of myelin genes. This is the first time that a regulatory network has been described that is responsible for terminal differentiation and myelination in the central nervous system.
Dendritic trees in neurons are built to collect inputs from other cells in the nervous tissue. The shape of a neuron’s dendritic tree reflects the distribution of its synaptic inputs. However, this relationship is not well understood. In this study, we show that the local statistics of the spatial input distribution in dendritic trees can be quantified by a new branching statistic, the regularity index R. We demonstrate that the relationship between branch points and the underlying input organization is consistent with optimal wiring principles. We also show that this statistic is useful for characterizing the relationship between branch points and the inputs received by a neuron. This study provides new insights into the relationship between dendritic tree shape and the underlying connectivity of a neuron and lays the groundwork for the analysis of large-scale neural circuits.
One in three people in the world are affected by zinc deficiency. Zinc deficiency is associated with increased susceptibility to bacterial infections. Here, we show how dietary zinc deficiency impacts host control of pneumococcal infection. We show that host zinc levels influence the burden of pneumococci in murine models of infection. We also demonstrate that dietary zinc deficiency compromises host control of pneumococcal infection by impairing the ability of phagocytic cells to kill the pathogen. This work highlights the importance of ensuring dietary zinc sufficiency as a critical component of population-wide resistance to the global burden of pneumococcal disease in conjunction with vaccination and other antimicrobial strategies.
The factors involved in the regulation of gene transcription include genetic factors, epigenetic factors, and trans-acting factors. In this study, we characterize antisense transcription at gene promoters in human breast cancer cells. We find that antisense transcription is prevalent at promoters and that it coincides with promoter-associated features such as active chromatin and transcription factors. We find that the chromatin environment at promoters is altered in response to antisense transcription.
Dengue is a mosquito-borne disease that is recognized as one of the most important human infections in the 21st century. In Brazil, the disease is an important public health problem associated with explosive epidemics. The confirmation of dengue fatal cases is difficult because in most of cases only one blood sample is obtained and the death occurred around defervescence when positive results of expensive and laborious techniques like viral isolation and viral RNA detection might be difficult. The dengue virological diagnosis in tissues specimens is also achieved by experienced personnel by immunohistochemistry. In this study, we aimed to assess the usefulness of NS1 capture tests as a diagnostic technique to demonstrate DENV antigens in human tissue specimens. In this retrospective study, tissues homogenates from dengue fatal cases occurred in Brazil in 2002 were analyzed. The NS1 antigen capture tests were evaluated in tissues of Brazilian fatal dengue cases. The NS1 antigen capture tests detected DENV in 73.9% of the tissues evaluated. The NS1 Ag Strip was the most sensitive in liver, lung, kidney, brain, spleen and thymus. Despite that the sensitivities of any of the three NS1 capture assays were higher than the viral isolation and conventional RT-PCR, the NS1 Ag Strip was the most sensitive in liver, lung, kidney, brain, spleen and thymus. The detection of viral antigens in tissues by ELISA has been reported previously in animals. In this report is demonstrated DENV antigen in a number of different human tissues. The NS1 capture assays are a valuable approach to postmortem dengue confirmation and may be used as a clinical/pathological diagnostic tool.
The current status of HIV testing among key populations, including MSM, in low- and middle-income countries is low. Community engagement and social media can be important tools in reaching high-risk populations and improving HIV testing rates. In this study, we evaluated the effectiveness of a crowdsourced intervention in promoting HIV testing among MSM in China. We found that the crowdsourced intervention was effective in promoting HIV testing compared to the control period, showing an 8.9% absolute increase (and a 43% relative increase) in HIV testing during the intervention period. The intervention was particularly useful in promoting HIV self-testing. Our study extends previous research on crowdsourcing by using it to develop a comprehensive HIV testing service, evaluating its effectiveness in a pragmatic trial, and assessing the long-term effect of the intervention.
Cytomegaloviruses (CMVs) are latent viruses that infect humans and other primates. They are known to evade the host immune system by inhibiting the activation of immune cells, such as natural killer (NK) cells, which are essential for their control. Here, we show that one of the ways in which CMVs evade the immune system is by shedding a viral protein that blocks the interaction between a key immune receptor, CD48, and its counter-receptor, 2B4. This mechanism allows CMVs to avoid detection and destruction by the immune system. Our results also show that this viral protein can interfere with the immune responses of other immune cells, including T cells and B cells. These findings highlight the importance of CD48/2B4 interactions in the antiviral response and provide a new mechanism for CMVs to evade immune surveillance.
The myelin membrane acts as an electrical insulator and enables fast conduction of action potentials in the nervous system. The myelin membrane is composed of lipids, proteins, and carbohydrates, and is synthesized by oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system. Oligodendrocytes are the only cells that synthesize myelin in the central nervous system. However, oligodendrocytes require lipid precursors from other cells to synthesize the myelin membrane. Recently, it has been shown that the lipid precursors are provided by astrocytes, and that the myelin membrane is enriched with lipids from the blood stream. Here, we show that the astrocyte-derived lipids are essential for oligodendrocyte myelin membrane synthesis. We also show that when astrocytes are unable to synthesize lipids, the oligodendrocytes incorporate lipids from the blood stream, which leads to a rescue of myelin membrane synthesis. These findings have important implications for the understanding of myelin diseases, which are characterized by a deficiency in myelin membrane synthesis.
Proteins are long chains of amino acids, the building blocks of life. The sequence of amino acids in a protein determines its three-dimensional structure, which in turn determines what it can do. The three-dimensional structure of a protein is determined by the interactions between the amino acids, but these interactions are not directly observable. The structure of a protein can be determined experimentally, but this is a difficult and time-consuming task. Therefore, researchers use computational methods to predict the structure of a protein from its sequence. A protein is made of amino acids, and the sequence of amino acids in a protein determines its structure. The sequence of amino acids in a protein is determined by the DNA sequence of the gene that encodes the protein. In this work, we describe a method that can predict the structure of a protein from its DNA sequence. We use the sequence of amino acids in a protein to predict the structure of the protein. The method is based on a statistical physics model that describes the interactions between the amino acids in a protein. The method is able to predict the structure of a protein with high accuracy.
Hantaan virus (HTNV) is a major pathogen that causes hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS) in Asia. The mortality rate of HFRS is approximately 15%. However, there is currently no effective prevention method available for HFRS. The study aimed to define the novel epitopes restricted by the major HLA alleles in Chinese Han population and to evaluate the function of the epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell responses in HFRS. The results of the study showed that five novel epitopes were defined in the study. The epitopes were restricted by the HLA-A2 and HLA-B35 alleles in Chinese Han population. The epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell responses were characterized by interferon-γ secretion, strong capacity for activation, and proliferation. The epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell responses were associated with the different outcomes of the HFRS severity. The epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell frequencies at the acute stage were inversely associated with the peak level of serum creatinine and the nadir of platelet counts during the clinical course of the HFRS. The epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell responses were also associated with the HLA alleles of the patients. These findings provide new insights into understanding the relationship between single epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell response, CD8+ T-cell functional characters, and disease control in acute zoonotic HTNV infections in humans.
Human African Trypanosomiasis (HAT) is a vector born parasitic disease caused by the infection by the parasite T. brucei gambiense. In West Africa, HAT is still active in the mangrove ecosystem of coastal Guinea. The Guinean government and its partners aim to reduce the burden of HAT and eliminate it as a public health problem by 2020, in accordance with WHO's objectives. In 2014–2015, the Ebola outbreak deeply impaired HAT control activities in the three mangrove ecosystems of Boffa, Dubreka and Forecariah. Our study aimed to evaluate the impact of the Ebola outbreak on HAT screening and caring activities in the three districts of coastal Guinea. We found that all active screening campaigns had to be abandoned during the Ebola outbreak and passive screening activities were also impacted. As a result, only 59 HAT patients were diagnosed and treated during the Ebola period, and only 10% of the patients attended their 3 months post-treatment follow-up visit. Our study suggests a major impact of the Ebola outbreak on HAT screening activities in the Western Africa most active focuses of Boffa, Dubreka and Forecariah in coastal Guinea.
Schizophrenia is a common psychiatric disorder, but the cause of schizophrenia is still unknown. A genome-wide association study was carried out to identify genetic variants associated with schizophrenia in a sample of 2,771 individuals of Ashkenazi Jewish origin. The study found that a genetic variant in the reelin gene is associated with schizophrenia in women. The study also replicated the association in samples from different populations. The study provides evidence that the reelin gene is a potential risk factor for schizophrenia in women.
Candida albicans is a fungus that infects the oral cavity and causes severe infections in the immunocompromised. It is also the cause of life-threatening systemic infections in the nosocomial setting. The fungus can cause disease in a wide range of hosts, including immunocompromised individuals and those with chronic diseases. The pathogenicity of C. albicans is not fully understood and is the subject of ongoing research. In this study we have identified a novel gene (DUR31) that is upregulated during oral infection and is required for the virulence of C. albicans. We show that DUR31 is a sodium substrate transporter and mediates the uptake of the polyamine spermidine. We also show that DUR31 is required for the rapid onset of symptomatic systemic candidiasis and that deletion of DUR31 results in increased sensitivity to killing by neutrophils and aberrant filamentous growth. The results of this study provide a novel insight into the molecular mechanisms that underlie the pathogenicity of C. albicans.
The immune system of vertebrates relies on the rapid maturation and differentiation of T and B cells. B cells are responsible for the humoral response of the organism by means of the production of high-affinity antibodies. B cells develop in the bone marrow from hematopoietic progenitors, and migrate as mature B cells (Naive) to the germinal centers (GCs) of the secondary lymphoid organs. Naive B cells undergo differentiation into antibody-secreting plasma cells (PCs) or memory cells (Mem). Cytokines secreted by T helper cells, such as IL-2, IL-4 and IL-21, as well as the direct contact with T cells, mediated by the union CD40 receptor on B cells with its ligand CD40L, play a key role in the differentiation of B cells. The process of B cell differentiation is controlled by the concerted action of multiple transcription factors that integrate physiologic signals in response to B cell receptor (BCR) cross-linking, extracellular cytokines, and the direct interaction with T cells, thus creating a complex regulatory network. The logical modeling approach has been useful to qualitatively describe biological processes for which detailed kinetic information is lacking. In this work we infer the regulatory network that controls the terminal differentiation of B cells from experimental data available in literature. We then construct two dynamical systems, one discrete and one continuous, to analyze the dynamical properties of the regulatory network. The discrete model describes the differentiation process outlined in Fig 1, from the Naive precursor to any of the GC, Mem, or PC cell types by means of sequential pulses of extracellular signals known to direct terminal B cell differentiation. The continuous model describes the dynamical behavior of the system and allows the exploration of system transitions that describe the differentiation form one cell type to another.
