The development of cancer is characterized by a gradual loss of tissue homeostasis. Intestinal tumours arise by hyperactivation of Wnt/beta-catenin signalling, which is often caused by the somatic loss of the tumour suppressor APC. Additional genetic and epigenetic alterations are involved in the gradual loss of tissue homeostasis during tumour progression, among them epigenetic silencing of tumour suppressors, which interact with genetic mutations in establishing the tumour phenotype. The epigenetic mechanisms that are involved in tumour progression are not yet fully understood, and epigenetic signatures of early stages of tumour development are not known. Here, we report a comprehensive catalogue of differentially methylated regions (DMRs) in early intestinal tumours. We show that DMRs are recurring and form de novo in early tumours, and that a core set of DMRs is conserved between mouse adenoma and human colon cancer. These DMRs are often hypermethylated at promoters of genes that are known to be involved in the development of colon cancer, but rarely silenced. Our data indicate that tumour suppressors are rarely silenced in early adenoma, and that the epigenetic deregulation in tumours can be divided into two principal components, an early and fast instructive patterning mechanism, and late rare stochastic events promoting clonal expansion.
Chagas disease is a parasitic disease that affects approximately 30% of individuals infected, leading to severe cardiac disease. The disease is caused by the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi and the host immune response is the main determinant of the disease outcome. In this study, we investigated the effects of infection with two different strains of T. cruzi on the immune response of human monocytes and lymphocytes. Our results show that the two strains, TcI and TcII, lead to differential activation of monocytes and T cells, which are correlated with their profile of lower and higher virulence observed in animal models, respectively. Moreover, our data suggests mechanisms explaining how differences in parasite strains can lead to different disease outcomes. These results have important implications for understanding the role of parasite strains in shaping the host immune response and disease outcome.
DNA polymerase ν (Polν) is a specialized enzyme that replicates DNA by a process that involves DNA strand displacement. It is a key enzyme in the DNA replication process, but its specific function is not well understood. In mammals, Polν is only expressed in cells that make sperm, and it is not clear why. Here, we have investigated the function of Polν in mice. We found that Polν is not essential for viability, but it is required for male fertility. Mice with a mutation in the Polν gene were infertile, and they had abnormalities in their testes. We also found that Polν is not involved in the repair of DNA damage caused by radiation. We propose that Polν has a specialized function in the testis, perhaps in the process of meiotic recombination.
Dengue viruses are a serious threat to public health. Infection with dengue virus can cause dengue fever or severe dengue hemorrhagic fever/shock syndrome. Unfortunately, an approved dengue vaccine is not present. Recently, a tetravalent dengue vaccine based on the backbone of 17D yellow fever vaccine strain has been developed. However, this vaccine candidate has a major drawback: it lacks a dengue envelope protein. We have developed a dengue envelope protein-based subunit vaccine candidate, lipidated dengue-2 ED III (LD2ED III), which is expressed in Escherichia coli and purified to homogeneity. We evaluated the immunogenicity of LD2ED III in mice and found that it induced strong antibody responses and neutralizing antibody responses. The antibody responses induced by LD2ED III were higher than those induced by dengue-2 virus. In addition, the antibodies induced by LD2ED III did not mediate antibody-dependent enhancement of dengue virus infection. Our results suggest that LD2ED III is a promising dengue vaccine candidate for inducing long-lasting neutralizing antibody responses with a low risk of detrimental effects.
Signaling pathways are fundamental for cellular decision making, because they transduce information about extracellular stimuli into a coordinated response. Signaling pathways consist of a series of enzymatic reactions which amplify the signal and allow for the cell to respond to very low concentrations of the extracellular stimulus. A key question in biology is how signaling pathways can function robustly in face of internal and external fluctuations. Here, we analyze the cell-to-cell variability of protein kinase signaling cascades, and show that protein kinase cascades can be highly variable or inherently invariant, depending on the properties of individual reaction steps and their kinetic parameters. We show that negative feedback is a key mechanism to establish invariance of signaling pathways. We further show that correlated fluctuations in multiple enzyme concentrations are required to effectively reduce cell-to-cell variability.
The immune system is able to mount a protective response against infections, which is dependent on the presence of antigens. CD8+ T cells recognize peptides that are presented by major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I) via T cell receptor (TCR). In a context of acute infection, CD8+ T cells undergo rapid proliferation and differentiation, and are able to control infections. However, in chronic infections, CD8+ T cells are often dysfunctional, leading to the development of disease and the persistence of the pathogen. Leishmania donovani is a protozoan parasite that is the causative agent of visceral leishmaniasis (VL). In mice, CD8+ T cells are the main mediators of resistance to VL. In order to understand the mechanism of CD8+ T cell dysfunction in chronic infections, we characterized the development and function of CD8+ T cell responses during the course of infection with ovalbumin-expressing L. donovani parasites. Our data show that L. donovani induced a dysfunctional CD8+ T cell response, characterized by a biphasic activation pattern. During the first wave of expansion, the cells displayed an effector phenotype and were able to produce cytokines. During the second wave of expansion, the cells became exhausted and were prone to cell death. Blockade of the inhibitory receptor PD-1 on dendritic cells rescued the exhausted CD8+ T cells and restored their capacity to produce cytokines. Furthermore, in vivo blockade of B7-H1, a molecule involved in the inhibition of CD8+ T cell responses, resulted in significant reduction of parasite burden. These data provide new insights into the development of CD8+ T cell responses in a context of chronic infection and may lead to the development of new therapeutic strategies for the treatment of chronic infections.
The misfolding of the prion protein (PrP) is a key aspect of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSE). Nonetheless, little is known about the underlying molecular mechanism. Here, we have performed microsecond molecular dynamics simulations of the structured C-terminal domain of mouse PrP at pH 4.5, which corresponds approximately to the lowest pH observed in endosomes. Our findings show that the protonation of H187, which is the only buried residue in the protein, leads to an electrostatic repulsion between the imidazole ring of the protonated H187 and the guanidinium group of R136. This reorganization of the protein structure induces the unraveling of the H2(Cter) helix and the elongation of S1,S2. This dual behavior seems to reconcile the various observations and proposals that have been made regarding the actual PrP region that undergoes a deep refolding upon conversion to a prion.
Trachomatous trichiasis (TT) is the late stage sequelae of repeated conjunctival Chlamydia trachomatis infection and inflammation in which the upper eyelid is distorted and rolled inwards (entropion) and the eyelashes turn towards the eye. Trachoma leads to visual impairment through the damaging effect of trichiasis on the cornea. The risk of sight loss is directly correlated with disease severity, becoming more frequent with increasing severity of trichiasis. The clinical phenotype ranges from a single aberrant eyelash touching the eye (without entropion) to the whole eyelid rolled inwards. Many individuals with trichiasis, particularly those with mild disease, decline surgery, even when this is provided free and close to home. Lack of time and fear of surgery are leading reasons for poor surgical uptake. Epilation is a widespread traditional practice in many trachoma endemic societies, with up to 70% of people with trichiasis using this treatment strategy. Epilation involves the repeated plucking of lashes touching the eye with forceps. Many individuals who decline surgical treatment consider epilation an acceptable alternative. In view of the problems in delivering the necessary volume of surgery, the high rate of refusals in some areas and concerns about the quality of programmatic surgical outcomes, we conducted a randomized controlled non-inferiority trial of epilation versus surgery for minor trichiasis in Ethiopia. At two years there was no difference in the change in visual acuity or change in corneal disease between the two groups. At four-years, 2.6% of the epilation-only group had major trichiasis. At four-years, 76.2% of the epilation-only participants had mild or no entropion, and 63.4% had no entropion progression. The epilation-only group generally controlled their trichiasis well by epilation, with only a few showing signs of significant progression. Epilation is a reasonable alternative to surgery for minor trichiasis for individuals who either decline surgery or do not have immediate access to surgical treatment.
Dengue fever is a mosquito-borne viral disease that affects 2.5 billion people worldwide. Dengue is caused by a virus called dengue virus (DV) and is the most prevalent mosquito-borne viral disease in the world. DV infection of monocytes (a type of immune cell) is a crucial step in the pathogenesis of the disease. Monocytes are cells that play a key role in the immune response by recycling the sugar-coated protein mannose receptor (MR) from the cell surface to the surface. Here we show that MR is a novel receptor for DV infection of human monocytes. We also show that MR is upregulated in monocytes exposed to cytokines that stimulate an immune response, which could explain why DV infection of monocytes is more common in people with a Th2 immune response. This finding is important because the immune response to DV infection may be relevant to the development of a vaccine.
In recent years, empirical and theoretical work has suggested that homeostatic mechanisms play an important role in the regulation of neural activity. At the microscopic level, the balance of local excitation and inhibition (E/I) has important computational properties. At a completely different scale, evidence from functional MRI suggests the balance of activity across brain regions may be an important organizing principle in macroscopic neural dynamics; networks of task associated regions typically show increased activity matched by relative de-activation of other ‘task negative’ macroscopic networks. The default mode network is spatially situated between different networks often activated during externally focused tasks; in our previous work, we suggested that at the whole brain level ‘task negative’ network activity may act to counterbalance task activation in other brain regions, forming a ‘network balance’ analogue of the local computational motifs driven by inhibition seen at smaller scales. Computational simulations have suggested the importance of homeostatic mechanisms in regulating neural dynamics; facilitating complex patterns of neural activity. However, such computational models typically simulate the brain at rest or under highly constrained task settings. In the present work, we explore the regulatory role of homeostatic mechanisms underlying simple behavior. We adapt an established simulation of basic neural dynamics—the Greenberg-Hastings model—incorporating information about human structural connectivity. We show how the presence of a local homeostatic plasticity mechanism that tunes the threshold at each node to balance excitatory input from connected nodes ensures that the agent does not stay trapped in either state for long. The model suggests that modeling spontaneous dynamics at rest (e.g., [24–26]) or with a simple task such as encoding a sensory stimulus (e.g., [15–16]) is different to modeling sensori-motor interactions with an environment; further, the existence of closed-loop feedback made the roles of homeostatic mechanisms more obvious.
Chromosomes are organized in three-dimensional structures that play a critical role in gene regulation. Long-distance chromosomal interactions are known to affect the average level of gene expression, yet their role in gene regulation is far from clear. We developed a new experimental scheme to screen for long-distance chromosomal interactions that affect gene expression. We used a reporter gene that is driven by a promoter in a region more than one kilobase away from the target gene. We found that some long-distance chromosomal interactions can regulate gene expression to a similar extent, but generate different levels of noise. We also found that some long-distance chromosomal interactions can cause gene expression to be “clustered” and enhance the expression of nearby genes. These results indicate that long-distance chromosomal interactions may play a general role in gene regulation.
Chromosome segregation during meiosis is critical for fertility, yet remains poorly understood. Homologous chromosomes segregate during meiosis by exchanging genetic material in a process called crossover. Crossovers occur at specific points along chromosomes, known as crossover hotspots. The number of crossovers is regulated by a process called crossover interference, which is mediated by the protein Pch2. Here, we show that Pch2 coordinates the formation of crossover hotspots along the chromosomes. Pch2 is required for the formation of crossover hotspots and for the formation of chiasmata (i.e. crossover interference). Pch2 is also required for viable spore formation when chromosomal recombination is reduced. We propose that Pch2 functions as a checkpoint that monitors chromosome axis status and ensures proper crossover formation and viable spore formation.
Plants have evolved a complex innate immune system to recognize and limit pathogen invasion. This system relies on the recognition of conserved microbial features, termed pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs), which trigger signaling pathways that control plant innate immunity. How PAMPs activate plant innate immunity is poorly understood. Here, we investigate the role of RIN4, a negative regulator of both PAMP-triggered immunity (PTI) and effector-triggered immunity (ETI), in regulating plant innate immunity. We identify six novel RIN4-associated proteins and show that RIN4 interacts with the C-terminal regulatory domain of the plasma membrane H+-ATPases AHA1 and AHA2. We show that RIN4 overexpression enhances plasma membrane H+-ATPase activity, while the rin4 knockout cannot re-open its stomata in response to virulent Pst. We also show that RIN4 is expressed in guard cells, where it interacts with the plasma membrane H+-ATPases AHA1 and AHA2. This interaction is important for RIN4 to regulate stomatal apertures in response to pathogen attack. Our findings provide a mechanistic understanding of how RIN4 regulates plant innate immunity.
Europe has faced outbreaks of mosquito-borne diseases (MBD) such as dengue and chikungunya in the last decade. Reactive control interventions are implemented when an outbreak occurs, but they have a short-lived impact. Preventive vector control measures are more effective, but their implementation requires a higher proportion of accessible breeding sites. In this study, we evaluated the effectiveness and economic feasibility of routine larviciding against Aedes albopictus in temperate climates. We found that larviciding can significantly reduce the risk of local transmission of chikungunya and dengue, but the effectiveness of interventions depends on the actual mosquito abundance in a given year. Our results suggest that small towns with high mosquito infestation rates will maximally benefit from intensive larviciding efforts made of season-round monthly treatment of public catch basins. For medium-sized towns with high infestation rate, a moderate larviciding effort is recommended. Larger cities in our study (>35,000 inhabitants) were characterized by a low or intermediate transmission risk, and the high costs of an intervention covering the entire urban area made it economically disadvantageous. In these situations, treating specific neighborhoods with highest mosquito abundance (called ‘hot spot' approach) may be cost-effective. Our results suggest that the proposed methodological approach may also be extended to European areas with different climates, conditional on the availability of local data on mosquito abundances estimated via entomological surveillance activities.
Rhinolophidae, bats that emit long narrow-band pulses, are the only mammals that use echolocation to navigate their surroundings. They are able to avoid obstacles by using their ears to detect the echoes returning from objects in their environment. This is a challenging task as the echoes return from multiple reflectors, such as trees, bushes, and other bats. Rhinolophidae use a specific movement of their ears to extract information from the echoes. This movement is thought to be important for avoiding obstacles, but the exact cues that the ears extract from the echoes are unknown. We propose a simple sensorimotor system that does not rely on the bat reconstructing the 3D layout of the reflectors. Instead, the system uses the time delay of the first echo onset and the directional sensitivity of the ears to guide the bat. We test the system in simulated 2D and 3D environments and show that it is able to avoid obstacles even in complex environments. The system is computationally efficient and provides a hard real-time response capability. This suggests that the ears of Rhinolophidae are able to extract the necessary information from the echoes to avoid obstacles without the need for a 3D reconstruction capability.
The evolution of metabolism has been a key factor in the emergence of life as we know it today. Despite its importance, the long-term evolution of metabolism remains a largely unresolved problem. Here, we explore the properties of the optimal pathways that convert a given input molecule into a desired output molecule, in a chemistry that is as simple as possible. We find that the optimal pathways are often organized in a modular fashion, and that some of the same reactions and molecules are used in multiple optimal pathways. We then explore the properties of metabolic pathways in a large-scale model of metabolic networks, and find that similar patterns of optimal pathway usage are observed. These results suggest that the long-term evolution of metabolism may have been guided by fundamental principles of efficiency and simplicity.
Humans are highly mobile, and we often encounter people from different geographic locations in our daily lives. This mobility has implications for genetic variation, and can lead to patterns of isolation by distance. In other words, populations closer to each other geographically tend to be more similar genetically. However, these patterns can be complex and can change over time. For example, human populations in Europe have undergone a history of population expansions and migrations, which have altered patterns of genetic similarity across space. Here we develop a method to infer patterns of isolation by distance and population size across space and time. Our method is based on the idea that when two individuals are similar in a genomic region, it suggests that they are recent relatives, and we use this information to infer migration rates and population sizes. We apply our method to a large genome-wide dataset of individuals from Europe, and find that it can infer changes in population size and gene flow over time. This method can be used to infer patterns of isolation by distance and population size in other contexts, and can be applied to other types of genetic data.
Insulin resistance is a common feature of metabolic disease and is associated with a range of chronic tissue injuries. The liver is one of the most metabolically active organs in the body and is therefore particularly susceptible to injury and fibrosis. In the liver, insulin signals via the insulin receptor substrate 2 (IRS2) to coordinate the repair of epithelial cells that line the surface of blood vessels and to the fibrotic stroma that surrounds them. IRS2 is essential for the repair of the liver following chronic injury, but its role in coordinating the repair of epithelial cells is poorly understood. We used a mouse model of chronic liver injury, in which mice were fed a diet containing a toxic chemical called 3,5-diethoxycarbonyl-1,4-dihydrocollidine (DDC), which is toxic to the liver. We found that mice lacking IRS2 had a poorer liver repair response and increased liver fibrosis. We also found that IRS2 was required for the fibrotic stroma to produce and respond to a growth factor called fibroblast growth factor 7 (FGF7). In turn, FGF7 was required for the liver to produce new epithelial cells. These findings suggest that insulin resistance may affect the ability of the liver to repair itself following injury and may contribute to the progression of chronic liver disease.
Dendritic arborization is a complex process that requires the orchestration of numerous cellular events that occur concomitantly at a distance from the neuronal cell body and integrate dramatic membrane extension, local protein translation and processing, vesicular transport, shifts in cytoskeleton dynamics and elevated metabolic activity. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is the primary cellular site for secretory protein and lipid biosynthesis, both of which are essential for proper cellular function. In agreement, disruption of ER homeostasis is associated with pathologies such as neurodegenerative disorders. To prevent deleterious outcomes of perturbed ER homeostasis, a cellular program called the Unfolded Protein Response (UPR) is triggered at times of increased load on the ER to ensure that ER homeostasis is retained regardless of the dynamic nature of cellular demand. The UPR, and specifically the ire-1/xbp-1 arm of the UPR, is important even under normal physiological conditions (i.e. in the absence of induced ER stress), as perturbations in this pathway impair secretory protein metabolism. Here we show that the ire-1 UPR sensor serves a conserved function in dendrite arborization during development in C. elegans and rats. Moreover, we show that a secretory block in the PVD neuron of C. elegans is relieved by compromising insulin/IGF-1 signaling, and that this can restore normal dendrite arborization. Thus, our work assigns a conserved role for IRE-1 function in neuronal development, and demonstrates that activation of alternative ER homeostasis-promoting pathways can counteract and prevent the deleterious consequences of compromised ER homeostasis on neuronal development.
The redox state of cells is critical for the survival of organisms. The redox state is regulated by a variety of mechanisms that control the production of reactive oxygen species and the balance between the formation of reducing and oxidizing equivalents. In Escherichia coli, the redox state of the NADH/NAD+ couple is regulated by the ArcAB two component system, which responds to changes in the respiratory and fermentative state of the cell. The ArcAB system is activated by the production of succinate, which is formed during fermentation of glucose. Succinate stimulates the activity of the ArcAB system, which then represses genes that encode enzymes for aerobic respiratory metabolism. The ArcAB system also represses genes encoding enzymes for fermentation of other carbon sources. Since the ArcAB system is activated by the production of succinate, it is thought to act as a global regulator of carbon metabolism. To understand how this system functions, we have mapped the DNA binding locations of the transcription factor ArcA in E. coli under anaerobic fermentation. We found that ArcA binds to DNA in a highly plastic manner, suggesting that the binding site architecture may be important for controlling transcriptional outputs. Furthermore, we found that ArcA directly regulates the expression of 176 operons, many of which are involved in carbon metabolism. These results provide a comprehensive understanding of the physiological role of the ArcAB system and the mechanisms by which it regulates the redox state of the NADH/NAD+ couple.
The hypothalamic-pituitary axis regulates various physiological processes including growth, reproduction, and energy homeostasis. Pituitary tumors are benign but can cause serious complications due to hormonal disruptions. How developmental or acquired signals elicit plastic change in pituitary cell growth resulting in hyperplasia or benign adenomas is not fully understood. Here, we describe a novel role for a gene encoding a protein called usp39 in regulating pituitary development through RNA splicing. Zebrafish mutants with a usp39 mutation displayed pituitary cell lineage expansion, which was accompanied by increased expression of e2f4, rbl2, and cdkn1a. We demonstrate that e2f4 overexpression in usp39 mutants contributes to increased pituitary cell mass, likely as a result of increased terminal differentiation or proliferation. Our findings indicate that usp39 plays an important role in pituitary development by regulating rb1 and e2f4.
Infections of the developing fetus and newborn infant can result in permanent brain damage and long term neurological sequelae. Although the mechanisms of disease following CNS infection are well described in animal models, the precise mechanisms of disease in the human fetus and newborn infant remain unclear. In this report, we have developed a mouse model of CNS infection that utilizes peripheral inoculation of newborn mice with limiting amounts of a virus that is infrequent in humans. In this model, we have demonstrated that alterations in the developmental program of the cerebellum are associated with inflammation in the developing brain. Intraperitoneal treatment of infected mice with a glucocorticoid, a compound that inhibits the inflammatory response, resulted in normalization of the abnormal development of the cerebellum and prevented the development of cerebellar hypoplasia. These findings suggest that inflammation in the developing brain may be a key contributor to the developmental abnormalities associated with intrauterine infections of the developing fetus and newborn infant.
Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) are a major cause of diarrheal illness in developing countries where these organisms cause hundreds of millions of infections and an estimated 300,000–500,000 deaths in young children each year. ETEC are genetically heterogeneous pathogens that share the ability to colonize the small intestine where they deliver the cholera toxin-like heat-labile toxin (LT) and/or small peptide heat-stable (ST) toxins that ultimately result in diarrhea. In the classic paradigm for ETEC pathogenesis, small intestinal colonization requires plasmid-encoded colonization factors (CFs). However, CF antigens are not appreciably cross-protective, and many ETEC strains do not appear to produce CFs. Moreover, LT alone (or the homologous cholera toxin) do not appear to afford complete sustained protection. These constraints, as well as a growing appreciation of the complexity of ETEC pathogenesis, have prompted searches for additional surface-expressed antigens. Use of classical genetic approaches including TnphoA mutagenesis to find novel molecules exposed on the surface of ETEC, recently led to the identification of several putative virulence loci, including the etpBAC two-partner secretion locus, responsible for secretion of the EtpA adhesin molecule. Recent immunoproteomic studies of ETEC H10407 independently identified EtpA as well as several autotransporters, suggesting that these proteins are expressed during both experimental infection in mice and in humans. To explore the utility of ETEC autotransporter proteins as vaccine candidates, we examined the immunogenicity and protective efficacy of individual passenger domains for Ag43 and pAT in a murine model of ETEC infection. The results suggest that these antigens are recognized during the course of both experimental and naturally occurring infections, and may be useful as protective antigens.
Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever (CCHF) is a viral infection with a high mortality rate. It is caused by the CCHF virus (CCHFV), which is transmitted to humans by the bite of infected Hyalomma ticks. The virus can also be transmitted by direct contact with blood and other body fluids of viremic humans and animals. The geographic range of CCHF is the broadest of any tick-borne virus, and there are reports of viral isolation and/or disease from more than 30 countries in Africa, Asia, Eastern and Southern Europe, and the Middle East. CCHF is an important public health problem in Oman, a country in the southeastern corner of the Arabian Peninsula, where the virus has been reported since 1995. The aims of this study were to describe the clinical and epidemiological features and outcomes of cases of CCHF diagnosed in Oman between 1995 and 2017. We also investigated the local molecular epidemiology of CCHFV by partial and complete S segment sequencing of stored CCHFV isolates from patients recently diagnosed in Oman. A retrospective descriptive record-based review and analysis of CCHF cases was conducted over the period 1995 through 2017. Clinical data included presence/absence and duration of fever, headache, myalgia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, petechial rash, and bleeding from sites including gums, nose, lung, gastrointestinal tract, or skin. Key laboratory variables include platelet counts, hemoglobin, urea and electrolytes, and liver function tests. The main clinical outcomes were death or survival. A total of 88 cases were reported between 1995 and 2017. Of these, 82 (93.2%) were confirmed by RT-PCR and 4 by CCHFV IgM alone. Two further probable cases (both fatal) in 2011 and 2016 were included on the basis of typical clinical and laboratory features as per electronic records. There were 3 isolated cases in January, May, and June 1995 with a further case in 1996, and then no cases were reported until 2011. Since then, there has been a steady increase in numbers, peaking at 20 cases in 2015. Annual notifications of suspected cases were not systematically recorded until 2011 and data about notifications of suspected cases and possible missed cases are incomplete. In the years 2013–2017, 19/80 (23.8%) of all cumulative cases had their onset within 3 weeks after Eid Al Adha, a festival associated with animal sacrifice. There was also a smaller peak of cases in the spring weeks 6–19. The main exposure risk identified was animal/fresh tissue exposure in 73/88 (83%), with only 1 case attributed to tick bite alone. Exposure risk was not identified in 14 (15.9%) (Table 1). Clinical features in 88 patients included fever in 80 (90.9%), hemorrhagic features 41 (46.6%), vomiting 32 (36.4%), myalgia 30 (34.1%), diarrhea 20 (22.7%), respiratory symptoms 17 (19%), abdominal pain 11 (12.5%), other symptoms in 29 (33%). Severe thrombocytopenia (platelet count < 50 x 109/L) was present in 64 (72.7%). There were 32 deaths, resulting in a cumulative case fatality rate of 36.4%. The case fatality rate in Omanis was 16/53 (30.2%) and in Bangladeshis was 10/18 (55.6%) (P>0.05). Of the 21 serum samples that were sent to PHE, 20 were RT-PCR positive using an in-house assay. However, of these, only 12 samples provided suitable cycle threshold values (the cycle threshold being 28 or under) to warrant
Robustness of cellular processes is crucial for maintaining cellular integrity. However, the robustness of a cellular system is not always evaluated. In this study, we developed a technique to evaluate robustness of cellular processes using genetic tug-of-war (gTOW) experiment. We used this technique to evaluate robustness of the budding yeast cell cycle and found that the robustness of the cell cycle is highly dependent on the ratio of two proteins, Cdc14 and Net1. We then modified a cellular model to reproduce the robustness of the cell cycle and found that the robustness is achieved by phosphorylation of Pds1 by Clb2. This result indicates that dosage imbalance between two proteins can cause cellular fragility, which is masked by the phosphorylation of Pds1 by Clb2. We believe that this study will help to improve the integrative models for cellular robustness.
The signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) family is a group of transcription factors that play a central role in the regulation of immune response to cytokines, viral infection, and tumor formation. In this study, we found that the degradation of STAT6 is dramatically induced by the latent antigen RTA of Kaposi’s sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV), a human herpesvirus that causes Kaposi’s sarcoma, primary effusion lymphoma, and multicentric Castleman disease. The degradation of STAT6 is also observed in other human herpesviruses, including Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), and human herpesvirus 8 (HHV-8), during their lytic replication. The degradation of STAT6 is dependent on RTA-mediated ubiquitylation of STAT6 for degradation by the proteasome and lysosome. The RTA-mediated degradation of STAT6 is critical for KSHV to reactivate its lytic cycle and produce virions. The degradation of STAT6 also induces the expression of TRIML2, a p53-associated tumor suppressor, which is a key molecule in the pathogenesis of KSHV infection. Overall, our findings reveal a novel pathway for KSHV and other human herpesviruses for their pathogenesis.
The spread of dengue virus (DENV) is a major public health problem worldwide. DENV is transmitted by mosquitoes and the most advanced vaccine candidate has hitherto exhibited only intermediate efficacy. Understanding the factors that contribute to the spread of DENV infection is therefore essential for the development of effective interventions to prevent and control the spread of dengue infection. In the present study, we determined the magnitude of dengue seroprevalence and seroconversion among the residents of the city of Dhaka, Bangladesh, and the factors that influence the magnitude of dengue seroprevalence and seroconversion. We found that DENV seroprevalence was very high (80%), and the extent of seroconversion was 57.7% among the 1125 participants. We found that the presence of indoor potted plants and the use of mosquito coils were significantly associated with seroprevalence, and the attendance in public gatherings and the use of mosquito coils were significantly associated with seroconversion. These findings suggest that the risk of exposure to DENV is high among residents of Dhaka and that the use of mosquito coils and public gatherings may be associated with recent dengue infection.
Sporulation is the process by which bacteria form dormant spores that can survive for long periods in adverse environmental conditions. Spores are formed by the mature vegetative cell, which then undergoes a series of morphological changes to produce mature spores. In the case of the bacterium C. difficile, spores are formed during anaerobic growth in the intestine of animals. The spores are highly toxic and cause diarrhea, which can be fatal in some cases. C. difficile infection can be treated with antibiotics, but the bacteria have developed resistance to most antibiotics. The bacterium can also form dormant spores that can survive in the intestine for long periods, making it difficult to eliminate the infection. Therefore, developing new antibiotics that can kill C. difficile spores is an urgent priority. The bacterium C. difficile forms spores by a complex process that involves the activation of a series of genes, including the gene coding for the protein σK, which is required for the formation of the spore coat. The σK gene is interrupted by a prophage-like element, called skinCd, which is removed from the gene through a process called recombination. The skinCd element is essential for the activation of σK. Here, we show that the protein CD1231 is required for the removal of the skinCd element. The protein CD1234 is also required for the removal of the skinCd element. The presence of CD1234 inactivates the σE-controlled expression of the CD1231 gene and thus prevents the activation of σK. We also show that the removal of the skinCd element by CD1231 and CD1234 is essential for the formation of the spore coat and the spore surface layers. These results suggest that CD1231 and CD1234 are important for the formation of the spore coat and for the formation of the spore surface layers.
The human microbiome is a complex community of microorganisms that is essential for human health. It has been recognized that the microbiome is altered in many diseases and that this alteration is associated with the presence of specific microbial species and strains. We developed a software tool for the analysis of microbiome data from large-scale studies. We applied this tool to investigate the predictive power of microbiome data for six different diseases. Our results suggest that microbiome data can be used to predict disease states with a high accuracy. We also showed that the same microbial markers are often associated to different diseases, which suggests that the microbiome is partially distinct from the healthy state regardless of the specific disease under investigation.
HIV-1 disease progression is highly heterogeneous and is linked to the rate at which the virus replicates in the host. The genetic background of the host, as well as the immune system, may affect the rate at which the virus replicates and the risk of disease progression. HLA-B*5701 is the host factor most strongly associated with slow HIV-1 disease progression, and HLA-B*5701 subjects with detectable viral load are ideal patients to investigate how the interaction between on-going viral intra-host evolution and immune system relates to risk of disease progression. We analyzed HIV-1 gag p24 sequences from six HLA-B*5701 subjects, all carrying the HLA-B*5701 allele, followed longitudinally from early infection up to seven years. We observed that HIV-1 evolutionary rate was lower in subjects with a higher baseline CD4+ T cell count, which suggests that HIV-1 replication is slower in subjects with a stronger immune system. The rate of HIV-1 evolutionary rate was also lower in subjects with a lower viral load at baseline. Our results provide, for the first time, a possible evolutionary mechanism for different risk of disease progression in HLA-B*5701 subjects. They indicate that subjects who maintain high CD4+ T cell counts in early infection are more likely to control HIV-1 replication for an extended time and that synonymous substitution rates, which are proportional to in vivo replication rates, could be used as a novel evolutionary marker of disease progression.
Trypanosoma brucei is the causative agent of African sleeping sickness, a serious and neglected tropical disease. The parasite is transmitted to humans through the bite of an infected tsetse fly, and causes severe disease in humans. Current treatments are based on drugs that are toxic and can cause severe side effects. In this study, we show that the choline analogs G25, T3 and T4, which are known to be toxic for T. brucei, act via a member of the mitochondrial carrier family, TbMCP14. This is the first demonstration that a member of the mitochondrial carrier family is involved in drug action in parasites.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are the most successful class of drug targets, and many GPCRs are considered to be orphan GPCRs because they do not have known endogenous ligands. Bombesin receptor subtype-3 (BRS3) is a classic orphan GPCR, and it is still considered as a ligand-coupled receptor. Here, we showed that BRS3 underwent positive selection in placental mammals and lost its endogenous ligand in a ligand-independent manner. We identified the first example of a GPCR that is considered to be a genuine orphan receptor in placental mammals, including humans.
The importance of sleep in humans and animals is a widely studied and intriguing topic in medical research. Electroencephalogram (EEG) and electromyogram (EMG) recordings are the most common tools for sleep analysis. The analysis is performed by visual inspection of the recordings, and the process is prone to subjective bias and inter-expert variability. This has led to the development of automated sleep scoring methods. However, these methods are still not as accurate as human experts, and are not easily adaptable across different experimental settings. We have developed a novel framework which utilizes end-to-end deep neural network architectures to perform automated sleep scoring. Our framework is able to learn robust features which generalize across different experimental settings, labs, and animal species. We evaluated our method on a large dataset of rodent EEG/EMG recordings, and found that it is as accurate as human experts. Furthermore, it is able to detect sleep alteration induced by a genetic mutation.
Toxoplasma gondii is a parasite that infects more than a third of the world's population. It is the cause of a disease called toxoplasmosis in immunocompromised individuals. Toxoplasmosis can be fatal in humans and it is also linked to the reactivation of latent infections in patients with AIDS. In addition to its impact on human health, T. gondii is also a major threat to the livestock industry. The parasite causes severe ocular disease in immunocompetent patients and is a major cause of abortion in sheep. The parasite is highly adapted to its host and has evolved mechanisms to evade the host immune response. T. gondii lacks the mevalonate pathway for the synthesis of isoprenoid precursors that is used by mammals but harbors a prokaryotic-type 1-deoxy-D-xylulose-5-phosphate (DOXP) pathway in the apicoplast. We have previously shown that this pathway is essential in T. gondii. We report that drugs acting on the mevalonate pathway, like statins, are active in vitro and in vivo against T. gondii. This is surprising as the parasite lacks this pathway. We also show that the parasite is able to salvage some isoprenoid intermediates from the host while depending on its own synthetic machinery for others. Our results reveal a metabolic exchange between host and parasite that quite likely also occurs in other intracellular parasites like Plasmodium or Cryptosporidium. We propose a double-hit strategy combining inhibitors of both host (statins) and parasite (bisphosphonates) pathways. This strategy will allow leveraging the extensive clinical experience gained with statins towards the treatment of infections and potentially adapt it to other intracellular parasites.
The banana and plantain industry is one of the most important in the world, but the disease complex caused by the three fungal pathogens, Pseudocercospora musae, P. eumusae, and P. fijiensis, is one of the main reasons for the reduction of banana yields. The evolutionary history of these pathogens, and the nature of the changes that have occurred in their virulence, are not well understood. Here we use whole-genome shotgun sequencing to study the genomes of P. musae and P. eumusae and compare them with the previously sequenced genome of P. fijiensis. We find that the three pathogens have similar overall gene complements, but that P. fijiensis and P. eumusae have expanded and contracted different gene families compared to P. musae. We also find that P. eumusae and P. fijiensis have expanded their metabolic capabilities, which may contribute to their increased virulence. The three pathogens also exhibit a number of species-specific adaptations that could contribute to their differences in virulence. Our results provide insights into the evolutionary processes that have shaped the virulence of these three pathogens.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a disease caused by Leishmania parasites that affects millions of people worldwide. VL is a severe disease that can lead to severe disabilities and death, and its clinical outcomes are influenced by complex multi-factorial immunological processes. Infections with L. infantum, the causative agent of VL, are often asymptomatic, while others result in severe symptoms and severe clinical outcomes. However, the molecular mechanisms that account for these distinct clinical outcomes are not well understood. Here we present the first attempt to identify transcriptional signatures associated with distinct states of infection with L. infantum in humans. We used a genome-wide approach to identify differentially expressed genes between distinct clinical-epidemiologic groups and performed functional analyses to identify gene modules associated with distinct states of infection with L. infantum. We identified a positive regulation of pathways and gene modules related to type I interferon signaling, which correlated with the strong interferon signature observed in asymptomatic infection. In addition, we identified a negative regulation of pathways and gene modules related to innate immune response, which correlated with the down-regulation of genes coding for neutrophil and monocyte chemokines and with the low proportion of circulating neutrophils and monocytes. We also identified an up-regulation of pathways and gene modules related to TCR signaling, which correlated with the activation of CD8+ T lymphocytes during VL. Finally, we found that the transcriptional profiles of patients under remission of disease were associated with a positive regulation of pathways and gene modules related to Notch signaling pathway, which suggests that Notch signaling pathway might be involved in recovery of the immune response after treatment. Overall, these results indicate that distinct states of infection with L. infantum are associated with altered transcriptional programs, which might impact the magnitude and regulation of the immune response.
The evolution and maintenance of cooperation is a fundamental problem in biology. In many social systems, natural selection favors exploitative individuals that can maximize fitness by performing less of a costly cooperative act while maintaining the benefits accrued from the cooperative behavior of others. However, the social conflict that arises from this exploitation can lead to the evolution of complex social strategies and counterstrategies that exploit the cooperative behavior of others while minimizing the costs of cooperation. One of the most fascinating examples of this is provided by the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, which forms a fruiting body composed of dead stalk cells that hold aloft a sporehead bearing hardy spores. Different genotypes can aggregate to produce a chimeric fruiting body, resulting in potential social conflict over which genotypes will “sacrifice” themselves to produce the stalk and which will contribute to the sporehead, and hence have direct reproductive fitness. The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum provides a compelling model for studying the genetic basis of such conflict and cooperation. Here we show that apparent partner-specific behaviors can be predicted from measurements of a simple developmental signaling system, demonstrating that the underlying mechanism of social interactions is relatively simple.
Targeting of mRNAs to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is crucial for the proper localization and function of secretory proteins. While the mechanism by which mRNAs reach the ER is not entirely clear, it is thought to involve a signal recognition particle (SRP) pathway. Here, we identify a cis-acting regulatory targeting element (SECReTE) that is enriched in secretome-encoding mRNAs and is highly conserved throughout evolution. SECReTE is found in both mRNAs that encode secretome proteins and those that encode non-secretome proteins, but the motif is not restricted to encoded TMDs. Moreover, SECReTE enrichment is independent of codon usage and is preferentially localized to the 3’UTRs. By altering the strength of SECReTE, we show that it influences both mRNA localization to the ER and protein production. Finally, SECReTE binding to an RNA-binding protein (RBP) is likely to enhance its targeting to the ER and, thus, the amount of secreted protein.
The mosquito Aedes aegypti is a highly successful invasive species that has colonized most tropical and subtropical regions. It is a vector for many infectious diseases, including dengue, chikungunya, and yellow fever. In the United States, A. aegypti is primarily found in the southern parts of the country. However, in 2013, A. aegypti was detected in the southern parts of California, a state that has not had a local outbreak of dengue fever in more than 30 years. This was the first detection of the species in California since the 1950s. We have analyzed the genetic structure of A. aegypti populations in California and found evidence for multiple introductions of the species into the state. These findings have important implications for the control of A. aegypti in California and other regions with a temperate climate.
Rhodococcus is an oleaginous bacterium that can accumulate a diverse array of lipids. Rhodococcus species have been used for over 50 years as a model organism for studying the metabolism of fatty acids. The high-quality genome sequence of Rhodococcus opacus PD630 provides a wealth of information for understanding the metabolism of this important bacterium. We identified a large number of genes that are involved in the synthesis and degradation of lipids and found that these genes are conserved in related species that are known for their ability to accumulate lipids. The large number of genes for lipid metabolism in Rhodococcus is a result of gene duplication, horizontal gene transfer, and the emergence of multifunctional enzymes. Our working model of the Rhodococcus metabolism provides a template for further refinement with the integration of data from genetics, biochemistry, metabolomics, lipidomics, and transcriptomics that will be the focus of future work.
Prokaryotic DNA can be considered as a long chain of overlapping oligonucleotides. The different oligonucleotide sizes in the DNA sequence can reveal different properties and patterns of bacterial and archaeal genomes. In this paper we investigate how oligonucleotide distributions change within and between prokaryotes in coding and non-coding regions, how biased oligonucleotide frequencies are, and whether any particular trends could be detected. We found that coding regions are more biased than non-coding regions, and that AT rich genomes are more varied than GC rich genomes.
Targeted gene mutations have been used for many years to study gene function, and to develop new therapeutic approaches to treat human disease. However, there are few studies that have evaluated the effect of the insertion of the targeting vector on the surrounding DNA. In this study, we have evaluated the effect of targeting on the expression of genes in the local region of the targeted gene. We have found that targeting the mouse genome by using the LacZ selection cassette, which is present in all targeting vectors, results in a high frequency of local effects on gene expression. In addition, we have found that the frequency of local effects is much higher for deletion mutations than for gene trap mutations. Our results suggest that the LacZ selection cassette has a significant impact on gene expression in the local region of the targeted gene.
In many animals, the development of the gonads is tightly regulated to ensure that they develop into male or female sex organs. In humans, the sex of a newborn is determined by a single gene, SRY, which is present in both male and female embryos. The sex of the embryo is then determined by the presence or absence of a Y-chromosome, which contains a gene called Dmrt1. In males, Dmrt1 is expressed in the developing gonads, while in females, the gene is not expressed. This difference in expression is essential for the proper development of the male and female gonads. In this study, we show that Dmrt1 is regulated by two RNA-binding proteins, Ol-bsf and Ol-cug-bp, which target a specific sequence in the Dmrt1 gene, called the D3U-box. We also show that these proteins are expressed in the gonads of both males and females, suggesting that they may regulate the expression of other genes involved in gonad development. These findings provide a new mechanism by which Dmrt1 is regulated during gonad development.
Mosquitoes of the genera Aedes, Anopheles and Culex are vectors of diverse diseases such as yellow fever, dengue, chikungunya, Zika and West Nile viruses, malaria and lymphatic filariasis. Blocking mosquito life cycle is an effective way to hamper disease transmission. Mosquito eggs lay their eggs in water pools, some of which are temporary. Water passes freely through their eggshells during early embryogenesis and drying these water collections leads to egg desiccation, preventing its development. Mosquito eggshell is composed of a brittle exochorion and a smooth transparent endochorion. The endochorion darkens less than three hours after being laid due to the process that produces eumelanin, a brown to black pigment. However, even melanized Aedes eggs shrink and die in a few hours if removed from a moisten environment. The present study investigates if the intensity of eggshell pigmentation is associated with the levels of desiccation resistance in mosquito vector eggs. Experiments were conducted with Aedes aegypti, Anopheles aquasalis and Culex quinquefasciatus. The results show that the eggs of the mosquitoes Anopheles aquasalis and Culex quinquefasciatus are more pigmented near its extremes, while Aedes aegypti exhibits the greater eggshell pigmentation, followed by Anopheles aquasalis and Culex quinquefasciatus. The lack of melanization in the An. quadrimaculatus GORO mutant does not compromise neither serosal cuticle formation nor the total period necessary for embryogenesis completion. In Anopheles species and strains the serosal cuticle formation is essential: egg viability in dry conditions is null before, but increases considerably after serosal cuticle synthesis. In both Ae. aegypti and An. aquasalis the hatching rate in each stage is equivalent for all dry exposure periods. Regarding Cx. quinquefasciatus, a gradual increase in embryo viability was observed after serosal cuticle formation, suggesting this structure follows a process of maturation until it becomes completely functional. The existence of the An. quadrimaculatus GORO strain allowed to demonstrate that egg resistance to desiccation in mosquitoes is heavily dependent on serosal cuticle formation and, at the same time, that eggshell melanization positively impacts the egg survivorship outside the water.
In sub-Saharan Africa, more than 60% of the world's HIV/AIDS cases occur in a region where schistosomiasis, a parasitic infection, is endemic. While it is controversial whether schistosome infection increases susceptibility to HIV-1 infection, there is evidence that in vitro exposure of cells to HIV-1 increases susceptibility to schistosome infection. However, it is not possible to directly test this hypothesis in humans. To directly evaluate the effect of schistosome infection on susceptibility to HIV-1 infection in a relevant model, we exposed rhesus macaques to a low dose of HIV-1 after exposure to schistosomes. In these animals, we observed increased susceptibility to HIV-1 infection, elevated viral replication, and accelerated loss of CD4+ T cells. Our data support the hypothesis that helminth infection increases susceptibility to HIV-1 infection and support control of schistosomiasis and perhaps other helminths in persons living in areas endemic for these parasites.
In multicellular organisms, development is highly reproducible. However, how noise affects development in vivo remains unclear, because of the technical difficulty in manipulating the noise intensity in experiments. We approached this issue through computational modeling. We developed a computational model of ERK-mediated somitogenesis based on previous experimental findings. The model generated the stepwise ERK activity shift as observed in the PSM. It also predicted that the shift occurred even in the absence of the clock, which could not be observed in our previous static analyses, although the timing and distance were irregular owing to the noise, resulting in reduced somite reproducibility. In summary, our study uncovered the clock-independent mechanism of irregular somite formation and also proposed a novel concept for a clock-dependent mechanism of noise-resistant developmental reproducibility in somite formation.
The biological function of proteins is encoded by their 3-dimensional (3D) structure, which is often modified by the oligomeric state. The structural hierarchy of oligomers in protein complexes thus gives rise to a wide diversity of dynamical events. The intrinsic dynamics of the component subunits of oligomers is usually maintained in the oligomeric state, but may be perturbed by oligomerization. The effect of multimerization on protein dynamics is examined here in the context of the Amino Acid Kinase (AAK) family of enzymes. Members of this family have different degrees of oligomerization (e.g., dimer, hexamer), and are cooperatively inhibited by arginine. A detailed analysis of the slow modes of motion accessible to the monomeric subunits is presented to shed light onto the role played by different dimeric assemblies found in the AAK family in selecting the functional motions of the family members.
Rabies is a viral disease that affects dogs and other mammals, and is transmitted to humans through bites from infected animals. Rabies is a major public health problem in developing countries where it is the leading cause of death from zoonotic disease. The current geographic distribution of rabies in North Africa is thought to reflect the historical expansion of human populations and the spread of the virus by human-mediated movement of dogs. Here, we use a novel approach that integrates phylogenetic and spatial information to investigate the spatial dynamics of dog-associated rabies virus in North Africa. We show that the spatial distribution of rabies virus is not consistent with the patterns of spread we would expect from local transmission dynamics in African dogs as the sole maintenance population. Instead, we show that the virus spreads over long distances, with a rate of movement that is consistent with the movement of dogs by human-mediated transport. This study highlights the importance of understanding the spatial distribution of rabies virus in the dog reservoir to predict its spread.
The 2014 FIFA World Cup will take place in Brazil in June and July. Brazil has reported over half a million dengue cases per year for the past 10 years and this year will be no exception. The possible risk of dengue among tourists and teams visiting the World Cup has been mentioned before. We estimated the risk of dengue in game and basecamp cities for the World Cup and compared the results of two different methods. We found that the risk of dengue is low and varies substantially across locations. We also estimated the number of dengue cases expected among tourists and teams during the World Cup. We expect between 26 and 53 symptomatic dengue cases among 600,000 tourists. We found that the risk of dengue during the World Cup will be low and will vary substantially across locations.
The discovery of thermogenic adipocytes has provided a new therapeutic approach for the treatment of obesity. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the differentiation of these cells are still not fully understood. In this study, we used a mouse model of brown adipocyte differentiation to provide a comprehensive reference map of the epigenomic and transcriptomic landscape of this process. We identified 2277 differentially expressed genes at five key stages of brown adipogenesis and found that a number of novel regulators were also identified through comparative transcriptomic and epigenomic analysis. Four of these factors, PIM1, SIX1, RREB1, and SOX13, were identified as potential regulators of brown adipogenesis and their expression was validated through gain- and loss-of-function analyses. We also found that SIX1 binds to a number of key adipogenic genes and cooperates with C/EBPα, C/EBPβ, and EBF2 in regulating the transcriptional network during differentiation. Our study provides a comprehensive reference map for the dynamic epigenomic and transcriptomic landscapes during brown adipogenesis, and identifies novel regulators for thermogenic adipocyte differentiation.
Paracoccidioidomycosis (PCM) is a chronic fungal infection that is endemic in South America. It is diagnosed by visualization of yeast cells in clinical samples or by isolation of the fungus in culture medium. However, the growth of the fungus takes several weeks and in non-sterile sites, the antigens produced are not specific to the disease. Thus, serological tests have been established since the 70's. In Brazil, the diagnosis of PCM is made by laboratories that have traditionally and routinely performed serological tests. However, we found that there are inconsistencies among the laboratories, strong enough to result in conflicting information regarding the patient's treatment. This is a serious problem, as the serological diagnosis of PCM is the basis for the management of the disease. Thus, renewed efforts should be promoted to improve standardization of the serological diagnosis of PCM.
Cutaneous larva migrans (CLM) is a parasitic skin disease caused by the migration of animal hookworm larvae in the epidermis. The infection is frequent in resource-poor communities in tropical countries and causes intense pruritus, sleep disturbance, and impairment of life quality. We aimed to determine the severity of CLM and its impact on skin disease-associated life quality in a semi-quantitative manner in patients from an urban slum in North Brazil. In a prospective study, 91 patients with CLM were enrolled and treated with a single dose of ivermectin. The severity of the infection was determined semi-quantitatively. The degree of skin disease-associated life quality impairment was assessed using the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI). In our study, 94.5% of patients with CLM reported reduction of their skin disease-associated life quality. The most common finding associated with an impairment of skin disease-associated life quality was pruritus. The impairment of skin disease-associated life quality was positively correlated with the intensity of the infection, the number of body areas affected and the presence of lesions at clearly visible body parts. Two weeks after treatment with ivermectin, the degree of skin disease-associated life quality impairment decreased significantly. A single dose of ivermectin caused a complete resolution of the lesions within one month and restored skin disease-associated life quality to the normal level. CLM impairs the physical and mental wellbeing as well as social interaction of patients in a setting where skin disease-associated life quality is generally low.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a neglected tropical disease that presents a complex dynamic influenced by socioeconomic factors such as poverty and limited access to health services. The main vector of VL in the Americas is the sand fly Lu. longipalpis complex. In this study, we evaluated the dispersal, population size, duration of gonotrophic cycle and survival of a population of the Lu. longipalpis complex in an endemic area of VL in Brazil. We used the mark-release-recapture method to evaluate the dispersal and loyalty behavior of this population. We also estimated the daily survival rate of the population and calculated the population size by the Lincoln index. The results of this study suggest that the daily survival rate of this population is high, which could influence other parameters of its vectorial capacity such as infective life expectancy and the host biting rate. Its low dispersal seems to be associated with loyalty behavior and the presence of all the necessary conditions for the establishment and maintenance of the vector population. Our findings related to the population’s daily survival rate provide the first published information on Neotropical species involved in the transmission of the agent of VL in the Americas. Some prevention and control measures aiming at the decrease of vector density, such as environmental management and reduction of the vector survival rate by the use of insecticide impregnated collars or topical products on the canine population are strongly to be recommended.
Enteropathogenic E. coli (EPEC) are important human pathogens that cause symptoms ranging from subclinical chronic colonization to acute, life-threatening infections. EPEC reside on the apical surface of the intestinal epithelium, and subvert host cell processes to facilitate efficient colonization. EPEC employ a type three secretion system (TTSS) to translocate dozens of effector proteins into the host cell. EPEC-encoded effectors subvert host cell processes, promoting colonization and formation of AE lesions. We previously reported that EPEC ΔnleB ΔnleC ΔnleD ΔnleE mutants, lacking active TTSS, elicit a strong inflammatory response. Here we show that EPEC mutants deleted of the nleB, nleC, nleD, and nleE effector genes, and a mutant deleted of the pathogenicity islands encoding these effectors, activate NF-κB. Furthermore, we show that this activation is TTSS-dependent. We propose that epithelial cells sense the active TTSS apparatus and trigger a novel signaling pathway, resulting in NF-κB activation. This activation is independent of the TTSS-encoded effectors, and is not mediated by a specific effector.
The RNA recognition motif (RRM) is a family of RNA-binding proteins that are able to recognize specific RNA sequences. The RRM domain of the human Rbfox protein is a well-known example of such proteins. In particular, Rbfox binds specifically to a hairpin microRNA precursor that is derived from the human oncogenic pre-miR21. Rbfox is part of a small family of tissue-specific alternative splicing regulators. The Rbfox RRM domain is a highly specific RNA-binding protein, but its specificity is not fully understood. Here we report the use of molecular simulation approaches to predict the structural determinants of the Rbfox•pre-miR21 complex. We performed molecular dynamics simulations to describe the interactions at the binding interface of the Rbfox•pre-miR21 complex. Our simulations predict a high affinity and selectivity of the Rbfox•pre-miR21 complex for the pre-miR21 target RNA. We also predict the presence of a new mutant, S151T, which is predicted to further improve the selectivity of the engineered protein for the target RNA.
Schistosomes are parasitic worms that cause a disease called schistosomiasis. The parasites live in the blood vessels of their host and cause blood vessel damage. This damage can lead to a variety of symptoms, including blood clots, pain and inflammation. Schistosomes manipulate the host’s blood system by releasing several bioactive proteins that disrupt normal blood flow. These bioactive molecules are not well understood. Here, we describe a new enzyme, SmSP2, that is abundantly expressed in adult schistosomes. We show that SmSP2 is a protease that cleaves several physiologically important proteins and processes several peptides that are involved in blood clotting. We propose that SmSP2 is a novel anti-hemostatic molecule that can contribute to the parasite’s survival in the host blood stream.
Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a global pathogen that infects 50–90% of the world’s population. CMV infection is often subclinical, but in immunosuppressed individuals it can lead to serious disease. CMV is also a common cause of neoplasia in transplant recipients. Therefore, CMV is a major concern for transplant recipients and the development of new anti-CMV immunotherapy is an attractive objective. Human CMV-induced γδ T cells are an attractive target for immunotherapy, since they are not MHC restricted and do not require T cell activation. However, their role in protection and specific contribution within the global anti-CMV immune response has not been firmly established. Here, we show that γδ T cells are as competent as αβ T cells to control MCMV infection and protect mice from death, and that γδ T cells are sufficient to protect mice from CMV infection in the absence of αβ T cells. We also show that γδ T cells are induced in the lungs and liver, and that they are sufficient to control virus multiplication and prevent organ disease in these organs. These results suggest that γδ T cells are an attractive target for anti-CMV immunotherapy in the context of immunosuppression.
Plasmodium parasites are the causative agents of malaria. These parasites are transmitted by the bite of infected mosquitoes and can cause severe illness in humans. In order to survive inside the mosquito, Plasmodium parasites must first invade the mosquito salivary glands and then penetrate the skin of the host. Once inside the host, the parasite must migrate to the liver where it multiplies and invades the liver cells to form malaria. In order to survive inside the host, Plasmodium parasites must be able to invade the host cell. Plasmodium parasites are able to invade host cells by secreting proteins that break down the host cell membrane and allow the parasite to enter the host cell. Plasmodium parasites also contain a protein that blocks the host cell's ability to produce proteins that can kill the parasite. This protein is called a cysteine protease inhibitor (ICP). ICPs are essential for Plasmodium parasites to invade the host and are present throughout the life cycle of the parasite. The role of ICPs during the life cycle of the parasite has been studied in rodent and avian parasites but not in Plasmodium parasites. We have now investigated the role of ICPs in Plasmodium parasites. We found that a parasite lacking the ICP was unable to invade the host cell and was unable to multiply inside the host. We also found that the ICP was essential for the parasite to migrate from the salivary glands to the liver. Our study shows that ICPs are essential for the survival of Plasmodium parasites in the host.
During development, cells need to respond to signals to change their fate. This process is mediated by complex interactions between proteins and DNA. For example, during the development of a fertilized egg into an embryo, cells need to turn on specific genes that allow them to become specialized in their function. These genes are often marked by a chemical modification called histone H3, which is added to the DNA at specific sites. Histone H3 is a protein that is found in all cells, but each cell has a different number of histone H3 molecules and these molecules can be modified in different ways. The histone H3 molecules are usually arranged in a structure called a nucleosome, which is made up of a histone protein and a segment of DNA. In this study, the researchers investigated a type of histone called histone H2A.Z, which is found in most cells. H2A.Z is modified in a way that makes it more likely to be found in the nucleosome, and it is also more likely to be modified in certain regions of the chromosome. The researchers found that when histone H2A.Z is modified in a specific way, it forms a different structure than the more common histone H2A. The modified histone H2A.Z is able to change its structure in response to signals from the cell. This allows it to move to specific regions of the chromosome that are involved in gene regulation. The researchers found that the modified histone H2A.Z was less likely to be found in the nucleosome when the cell was in a state of development compared to when the cell was not developing. This suggests that histone H2A.Z is important for the regulation of gene expression during development.
The lineage of cells in the human body is currently being reconstructed by tracing the progenitors of cells in ex-vivo samples. However, this method is limited to specific tissues, and is dependent on the presence of specific stem cells. Our laboratory developed a method that utilizes somatic mutations for reconstructing cell lineage trees. This retrospective method, which was also applied by others, is based on the notion that somatic mutations accumulated during normal cell divisions endow each cell of the body with a genomic signature that, with very high probability, is unique. In this study, we applied our method to the intestinal epithelium, which is intensively studied by various tracing methods. Our results confirm that ‘monoclonal conversion’ takes place and that intestinal epithelium stem cells do not incorporate an immortal strand. We also confirmed the positive correlation between physical location of crypts and their lineage proximity. Our findings indicate that the colon is constituted by a few distinct progenitors and that there is no evidence for hematopoietic renewal of the intestinal epithelium during adulthood. Our method was first used to confirm that monoclonal conversion occurs in crypt stem cells, and that these stem cells do not incorporate an immortal strand. This validation of our method is followed by the use of the lineage tree reconstruction to generate new information about crypt stem cells.
HIV-1 is a highly virulent virus that can persist in infected individuals despite long-term antiretroviral therapy (ART). The persistent nature of this infection requires lifelong adherence to daily ART dosing, which is costly and often associated with adverse events. To reduce the cost and toxicity of ART, researchers are developing HIV eradication strategies that will result in a viral rebound-free interruption of therapy. Towards this goal, “kick and kill” HIV eradication strategies are being developed. One such strategy is to induce the expression of latent HIV in infected cells, which will result in cell death. However, it is important to note that “kill” strategies cannot rely on the induction of virus expression in latently infected cells to result in cell death. Therefore, candidate “kill” agents, such as immunotoxins, are being considered for incorporation into HIV eradication protocols. Here, we demonstrate that the 3B3-PE38 immunotoxin, which targets the conserved CD4 binding site of HIV-1 gp120, is effective at killing HIV producing cells throughout the body.
Dengue is a major public health problem in many parts of the tropical developing world. Dengue is caused by infection with one of four serotypes of dengue virus (DENV1-4), which are arboviruses belonging to the Flaviviridae family. Dengue is characterized by a wide range of clinical manifestations, from mild undifferentiated fever through to more severe syndromes, primarily dengue haemorrhagic fever (DHF) and dengue shock syndrome (DSS). DHF is a vasculopathy characterized by capillary leakage and haematological dysregulation; in severe case hypovolaemic shock (DSS) may develop. There are no licensed vaccines or specific antiviral therapies for dengue, and patient management relies on good supportive care. Timely, sensitive and specific diagnosis of DENV infection can assist in patient management. Prompt diagnosis of index cases can also facilitate vector control activities in the community so as to mitigate further transmission. NS1 is a 55 kDa glycoprotein secreted by DENV infected cells in vitro and in vivo. The function of NS1 in viral replication is not well understood, other than it appears to be essential and might serve to anchor the replication complex to the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum. NS1 is postulated to contribute to the pathogenesis of dengue. The availability of commercial ELISA assays to detect the DENV NS1 protein in acute plasma provides an additional dengue diagnostic tool to the existing approaches of PCR, serology and, less frequently, virus isolation. The purpose of the current study was to assess the sensitivity and specificity of two commercial NS1 assays in the context of different viral serotypes, viral burdens and clinical presentations in Vietnamese patients. Our findings suggest that both the Platelia ELISA and NS1-LFRT are specific tools for diagnosing acute dengue, though the sensitivity of both is influenced by the level of viraemia and host humoral immune response.
Rabies is an important cause of mortality in Malawi, especially in children. To address this problem, we have embarked on an annual mass dog vaccination campaign throughout Blantyre city. In order to make the vaccination campaign financially sustainable in the longer term, we need to reduce the reliance on door-to-door vaccination and encourage higher attendance at SP vaccination stations. Consequently, the aim of this study was to investigate the barriers to attendance at SP vaccination clinics using a multi-faceted approach including modeling the relationship between distance to travel and attendance at SP together with dog owner questionnaires. Our study is the first large scale, city-wide study investigating the reasons for failure to attend static vaccination points in SSA. We found that distance to the nearest SP was an important factor in attendance. Our model also showed that the effect of distance was increased at increasing levels of poverty. We also found that socio-economic status influenced attendance to SP vaccinations. Our model shows that dogs from areas with higher proportions of people living in poverty are more likely to be presented for vaccination. Our findings have important implications for the planning of future vaccination campaigns in urban SSA.
Tsetse flies transmit trypanosomes to humans and animals through their bites. To control disease, it is necessary to reduce the transmission of trypanosomes from tsetse to mammalian hosts. We have analyzed the gene expression in tsetse salivary glands (SG) to identify genes whose differential expression can help to identify the factors that control parasite transmission from tsetse to mammalian hosts. We have identified many novel proteins that are differentially expressed in the SG and mammalian blood, and that may play important roles in the tsetse-trypanosome interactions. Our results show that tsetse SG infections reduce the expression of the abundant saliva proteins, which may impact the parasite transmission to the mammalian host. In addition, we have identified the differentially expressed genes in the SG and blood stages of the parasite, and compared the two transcriptomes to identify differences in their surface coat composition. We have also identified a number of novel surface proteins that may be involved in the parasite transmission. Our results provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms that control parasite transmission from tsetse to mammalian hosts.
Leishmaniasis is a neglected tropical disease that affects 12 million people worldwide. The treatment is still incomplete, due to the bioavailability issues of the available drugs. Therefore, natural products with antileishmanial activity are being searched for to overcome the parasite resistance. We have isolated bacterial strains from the exoskeleton of ants associated to fungus-growing ants. These bacteria produce natural products with antileishmanial activity. These natural products have been identified through mass spectrometry and their structures were determined by NMR and HRESIMS. We report the first report of the antileishmanial activity of antibiotics Mer-A2026B (1), piericidin-A1 (2), nigericin (3), and dinactin (4). These compounds were also active against intracellular amastigotes. The antileishmanial activity of these compounds is considered to be drug-like according to Lipinski´s rules, and they exceed the ideal molecular weight and number of hydrogen-bond acceptors. Dinactin (4) is an interesting compound for further pharmacological studies in the treatment of leishmaniasis based on its high selectivity index against L. donovani and on LogP and HBD values that comply with Lipinski´s rules. Furthermore, given their remarkable in vitro activity, compounds 3 and 4 are suitable starting points for molecular optimization aiming to pursue molecules that fit into the drug-like concept.
Many parasites can spread rapidly and cause disease in humans and other animals. A major problem is that these parasites can adapt quickly to environmental change, making it difficult to control their spread. Trypanosoma brucei is a parasite that causes a disease called sleeping sickness in humans and other animals in sub-Saharan Africa. It is a complex life cycle that involves both sexual and asexual reproduction. The parasite is transmitted to humans by biting midges and tsetse flies. It can cause disease in humans and other animals, and the parasite can spread between animals and humans. It is difficult to understand how this parasite spreads and how it adapts to different environments. We have studied the genetic diversity of T. brucei in three foci of disease in East Africa. We found that the genetic diversity of the parasite is very low in one of the foci, which is found in Malawi. This suggests that the parasite in Malawi has been able to adapt to its environment by undergoing sexual reproduction, which is not the case in the other two foci. We also found that the genetic diversity of the parasite in the two foci in Uganda is very high. This suggests that the parasite in Uganda is more likely to be clonal, which means that it is more likely to undergo genetic exchange and adapt to its environment. These findings suggest that the parasite can undergo sexual reproduction in the field in Malawi, but not in Uganda. This highlights the need to understand the role of sexual recombination in the spread of this parasite and how it adapts to different environments.
The brain is a network of neurons that is capable of processing and encoding information in a wide range of temporal scales. The brain is not a single network but is instead composed of many networks, each with different structures and functions. One of the most well-known networks in the brain is the auditory brainstem, which is responsible for processing sound. The auditory brainstem processes sound through the use of a network of neurons that are connected in a recurrent manner. This means that the neurons are connected to each other in a way that allows the neurons to talk to each other. This network is able to process sound by using a process called spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP), which is a mechanism that can change the strength of connections between neurons in the network. STDP is thought to be able to capture information about the temporal correlations present in the inputs to the network, such as the timing of spikes. In this study, we examined how STDP can selectively strengthen the connections in a network that receives oscillatory inputs. We found that the network becomes selectively responsive to the frequency of the inputs it received during learning. We also found that the network becomes selectively responsive to the phase of the inputs it received during learning. This is important because it suggests that the auditory brainstem may be able to selectively respond to the different parts of a sound. This is consistent with the idea that the auditory brainstem is able to separate different frequency components of sound.
Leishmaniasis is a neglected tropical disease caused by the protozoan parasite Leishmania infantum. In Brazil, the most endemic country in the world, Zoonotic Visceral Leishmaniasis (ZVL) is a major public health problem, with more than 3000 cases per year, and the fatality rate can be very high if untreated. The control of ZVL is currently based on a mass treatment of seropositive dogs. However, the cost of the collars, their high loss rate, and the logistics required to deploy them at a mass scale limit their use as a public health intervention. We have developed a mathematical model to evaluate the efficacy of community-wide use of systemic insecticides in dogs as a strategy to reduce the number of human infections with L. infantum causing ZVL cases in an endemic area. The model allows estimating the minimum requirements of the systemic insecticide (efficacy and duration) and the intervention (dog treatment coverage) to significantly reduce L. infantum infections in humans. We predict that significant reductions in human incidence of infection can be achieved by community-wide use of systemic insecticides in dogs. The model also allows us to evaluate the effect of modifying the coverage of the intervention. The results of this study could be useful to guide the development of a new product or the repurposing of systemic insecticides already available so that they can be used as a public health intervention to control ZVL in endemic regions.
Malaria is a major public health problem in tropical regions of the world. It is responsible for significant morbidity and mortality with around 300 to 500 million malaria cases reported annually that result in about 2 million malaria-related deaths. Of the Plasmodium species responsible for human malaria, Plasmodium falciparum is the most virulent and accounts for the vast majority of deaths attributed to malaria. Given the rapid spread of drug resistant malaria parasites, there is an urgent need to develop novel intervention strategies including new drugs and effective vaccines to combat malaria. All the clinical symptoms of malaria are attributed to the blood stage of the parasite life cycle during which Plasmodium merozoites invade and multiply within host erythrocytes. Invasion of erythrocytes by Plasmodium merozoites is a complex multi-step process that is mediated by specific molecular interactions between host receptors and parasite ligands. A clear understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved in erythrocyte invasion could lead to the development of novel approaches to inhibit invasion, limit blood-stage parasite growth and protect against malaria. Plasmodium species belong to the phylum Apicomplexa and are characterized by the presence of apical membrane bound organelles called micronemes and rhoptries that play important roles in host cell invasion. A number of key parasite ligands that mediate critical interactions with host receptors during invasion are localized in these apical organelles. Here, we have investigated the role of intracellular calcium in the regulated secretion of apical organelles in P. falciparum merozoites during invasion. We demonstrate that exposure of merozoites to low potassium ion concentrations as found in blood plasma appears to provide the external signal that triggers a rise in cytosolic calcium, which triggers translocation of microneme proteins to the merozoite surface. Following release to the merozoite surface, engagement of the microneme protein EBA175 with its receptor glycophorin A triggers release of rhoptry proteins such as CLAG3.1. These observations provide a starting point for the analysis of signaling pathways involved in regulated secretion of apical organelles during invasion. A clear understanding of these pathways may provide novel targets for intervention since inhibition of apical organelle release will block invasion and limit blood-stage parasite multiplication.
Tumors are characterized by a highly permeable blood vessel network and low perfusion. This abnormal vasculature leads to decreased drug delivery to the tumor. To overcome this problem, we investigate the effect of normalization of tumor vessels on drug delivery. Normalization of tumor vessels is achieved by inhibiting angiogenesis which is triggered by the chronic hypoxic conditions in tumors. We use a mathematical model to simulate the tumor growth and the effect of antiangiogenic agents on vessel density and IFP. We find that the combination of antiangiogenic agents and chemotherapy results in a decrease in IFP and vessel density, enhancing the delivery of drugs to the tumor. The decrease in IFP is found to be more pronounced in the interior region of tumor, enabling convective extravasation of drugs to the tumor center. We also observe that the combination of antiangiogenic agents and chemotherapy can improve the delivery of liposomes in the interior region of tumor.
The ability of HIV to capture and trans infect host cells, including immune cells, is critical for its dissemination within the infected host. HIV particles can bind to a variety of host-derived cell surface proteins and lipids, but the molecular mechanisms of HIV-host cell interactions are poorly understood. Here we demonstrate that HIV particles can capture and trans infect immature dendritic cells, but this process is dependent on the expression of a host-derived protein, CD169, on the surface of mature dendritic cells. CD169 is a member of the sialic acid binding immunoglobulin-like lectin (Siglec) family, which binds to terminal α2,3-sialylated gangliosides, including GM3. We also demonstrate that HIV particles can bind to GM3-containing liposomes and that this interaction is dependent on CD169 expression on the surface of cells. We further show that HIV particles can be captured by mature dendritic cells in a CD169-dependent manner, and that CD169+ dendritic cells transfer captured virus particles to CD4+ T cells, but not to other immune cells. These findings demonstrate a novel mechanism of HIV capture and transfer by dendritic cells, and suggest that CD169 might be a target for antiviral therapies.
The bones of our skeleton are produced by a process called endochondral ossification, which involves the formation of cartilage and then the transformation of cartilage into bone. Mutations in genes that control the timing of endochondral ossification can lead to skeletal abnormalities, such as Raine syndrome, which is characterized by abnormal bone growth and developmental delays. Here, we have used a forward genetic screen to identify mutations that cause excessive bone growth in developing zebrafish larvae. We show that mutations in genes that produce cartilage proteoglycans (PGs) cause this bone overgrowth, and that the timing of PG synthesis is altered in these mutants. These findings are consistent with the notion that CSPGs negatively regulate chondrocyte maturation and bone formation. Furthermore, we show that mutations in Fam20b and Xylt1, genes that encode enzymes that synthesize CSPGs, cause premature chondrocyte maturation and bone growth in zebrafish. These studies provide a genetic basis for skeletal abnormalities associated with Raine syndrome and provide a new perspective on the role of CSPGs in the development of the skeleton.
Severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome (SFTS) is an emerging infectious disease caused by SFTSV, a phlebovirus in the family Bunyaviridae. SFTS was first identified in 2007 in the Eastern China, and has since spread to many regions in China and other countries. The virus is thought to be a tick-borne zoonotic virus, and the natural reservoir and the mode of a vertical transmission for SFTSV have yet to be completely determined. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive survey to elucidate SFTSV ecology in ticks and small wild animals in the SFTS endemic area in Jiangsu province. We detected SFTSV-RNA in both feeding and questing H. longicornis and H. flava. Interestingly, viral RNA was identified in larvae of H. longicornis, collected directly from the environment prior to a first blood meal, indicating that SFTSV could be vertically transmitted in nature. We also detected SFTSV-RNA in small wild mammals including Erinaceus europaeus and Sorex araneus, and detected viral antibodies in two migratory bird species, Anser cygnoides and Streptopelia chinensis. Infection of SFTSV in the wild bird species suggests that SFTSV could be transmitted long distances by them, which is also in agreement with a phylogenetic analysis reported earlier. Our findings in this study will help formulate effective measures to deter the further spread of this deadly emerging pathogen.
Marine viruses are recognized as major ecological and evolutionary drivers and have immense impact on the community structure and the flow of nutrients through marine microbial food webs. The cosmopolitan coccolithophore Emiliania huxleyi is a widespread unicellular eukaryotic alga, responsible for large oceanic blooms. However, its intricate calcite exoskeleton accounts for ~1/3 of the total marine CaCO3 production. E. huxleyi spring blooms are frequently terminated as a consequence of infection by a specific large dsDNA virus (E. huxleyi virus, EhV). The availability of genomic and transcriptomic data and a suite of host isolates with a range of susceptibilities to various EhV strains, makes the E. huxleyi-EhV a trackable host-pathogen model system with important ecological significance. Recent studies demonstrated that viruses significantly alter the cellular metabolism of their host either by rewiring of host-encoded metabolic networks, or by introducing virus-encoded auxiliary metabolic genes (vAMG) which convert the infected host cell into an alternate cellular entity (the virocell) with novel metabolic capabilities. We used a novel multiplex single-cell qPCR approach to quantify the dynamics of host and virus gene expression profiles of individual cells during infection of E. huxleyi populations. We provide strong evidence for heterogeneity within the population and discern between cells at different infection states based on their viral gene expression signatures. We unravel an unrecognized phase of early host response that preceded viral gene expression within infected cells. We suggest that examining host and virus gene expression profiles at the single cell resolution allows to infer the temporal dynamic of the infection process, thereby it serves as an attractive approach to decipher the molecular mechanism underlying host-virus interaction.
Proteins interact with one another to perform their biological function. Therefore, proteins that perform the same biological function tend to interact with one another. This is the guilt-by-association principle that has been successfully applied to predict protein function. However, this principle does not account for the dynamic changes in the network of interactions, which is known to occur in cancer. Here, we show that the guilt-by-association principle can be used to identify functions that have gained or lost in cancer relative to normal tissue. We find that many of the functions that have gained or lost in cancer are not annotated to perform those functions in the standard annotation of the gene. Moreover, we find that the functions that gain or lose in cancer are enriched for nonsense mutations, which are known to be associated with cancer. We also find that the functions that gain or lose in cancer have a consistent association with patient survival risk. Our approach provides a complementary way to identify functions that gain or lose in cancer, and may be useful in identifying novel therapeutic targets.
Influenza A viruses (IAVs) are well known for their ability to infect many different hosts and to undergo antigenic variation, which is a key factor in maintaining their ability to spread and survive in nature. Antigenic variation within specific hemagglutinin (HA) and neuraminidase (NA) subtypes is well described with influenza A viruses (IAVs) as this is an important consideration in developing vaccines and vaccination strategies associated with seasonal influenza viruses in humans and IAV affecting domestic livestock and poultry. However, less is known about the mechanisms, extent and persistence of these immune responses and the outcomes of re-exposures that have critical significance to understanding the maintenance of IAV antigenic diversity in multi-strain/subtype-pathogen systems such as occur with IAV and ducks. Here, we studied the persistence of protection to homologous IAV challenge by initially infecting mallards with H3N8 and re-challenging three groups with the same virus at different time intervals. The initial H3N8 induced long-term protection against homologous re-infection for up to 15 weeks post-challenge, which is much longer than expected. None of the re-challenged birds, regardless of time interval, shed virus as determined by virus isolation and that was true for all age groups and time intervals. The observed protection and detectable antibody response is inconsistent with results from previous studies that concluded that infection conferred no protection against re-infection and that detectable antibody responses in ducks were short-lived.
Horizontal gene transfer (HGT) is a mechanism by which bacteria exchange genes with other bacteria, and is often mediated by plasmids. Many plasmids are capable of transferring genes from one bacterium to another. In this process, plasmids are transferred from one cell to another by a process called conjugation. Conjugation is a complex process that requires the plasmid to be in the form of a single-stranded DNA. The plasmid is then transported through the cell membrane of the donor cell and into the recipient cell. Once inside the recipient cell, the plasmid is replicated, and the newly replicated plasmid is then transferred back out of the recipient cell and into the donor cell. This process of transferring plasmids is an important mechanism of HGT, and is used by many bacteria to acquire new genes. However, the regulation of plasmid conjugation is not well understood. In this study, we show that conjugation of a plasmid from Bacillus subtilis is not activated by a signaling molecule produced by the recipient cell, but is instead activated by a protein encoded by the plasmid. This protein, named RapLS20, is a member of the Rap family of proteins. These proteins are known to be involved in regulation of developmental processes in B. subtilis. In this study, we show that RapLS20 is the master regulator of plasmid conjugation in B. subtilis.
The mosquito Aedes aegypti is the primary vector of dengue virus (DENV). Understanding the basic mechanisms of how the mosquito successfully transmits DENV is a first requirement towards designing novel genetic control strategies. Here we report the global transcriptional response of A. aegypti females upon DENV infection at two early time points. We show that 2,454 DENV responsive genes interact in well-defined patterns that distinguish the two response phenotypes. The observed transcriptional network establishes global cross-talk among the DENV response genes that may subsequently trigger the appropriate host actions at the critical early time points following exposure to and infection by DENV.
Loiasis is a filarial infection endemic in the rainforest areas of West and Central Africa. It is associated with two species of tabanid flies (Chrysops silacea and C. dimidiata). It is known to cause serious complications in some patients, including encephalitis. In 2013, the World Health Organization (WHO) recommended the use of ivermectin as a drug of choice for onchocerciasis and lymphatic filariasis (LF) control in areas where the disease is endemic. The drug is highly effective against Loa loa infection, but it is associated with the risk of severe adverse events in individuals harbouring high densities of Loa microfilariae in their blood. In 2014, we conducted a cross-sectional study in four areas of co-endemicity between loiasis and onchocerciasis in Cameroon. We examined the relationship between the frequency of individuals taking ivermectin and their L. loa infection. We also assessed the impact of ivermectin on the prevalence of L. loa infection in children in these areas. We found that the frequency of individuals taking ivermectin was a key determinant for its full impact on L. loa parasitological indicators. The non-adherence to ivermectin treatment has been demonstrated to be associated to perceived fear of severe adverse events. This constitutes an inbuilt design that may prevent ivermectin to ever have full impact on L. loa transmission in endemic areas. In the areas of co-endemicity L. loa with O. volvulus or Wuchereria bancrofti, ivermectin would likely also have limited impact on both the parasitological and entomological indicators of those filariae. These observations reinforce the urgent need of putting in place alternative strategies to accelerate the elimination of onchocerciasis and LF in areas co-endemic with L. loa. This also calls for a research agenda to develop safe drugs to combat L. loa.
The replication and transcription of genes are carried out by two separate processes, and the timing of their initiation can affect the outcome of their interaction. In some organisms, these processes are coordinated, but in others, they are disconnected. Here, we report that the coordination of transcription and replication in Bacillus subtilis is required to prevent genome instability. We show that the coordination of transcription and replication is compromised by inverting the replichore bias in which the transcription of ribosomal RNA operons is oriented away from the origin of replication. This results in disruption of replication and leads to mutations in the rpoB gene. We further show that this disruption is more pronounced in rich medium. Our findings suggest that the coordination of transcription and replication is important to maintain genome integrity, and that disruption of this coordination might lead to mutations in genes involved in DNA repair, leading to genome instability.
Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease caused by the schistosome blood fluke, a parasitic flatworm. It is a major neglected tropical disease, affecting 200 million people worldwide. The schistosome has a complex life cycle, which includes a period of time in the human body. It is not possible to study these parasites in the laboratory since they are difficult to maintain in the absence of the host cell. In this study, the authors used a virus that can infect the schistosome and attach to its surface. The virus can then integrate into the genome of the schistosome and transmit genes that encode important biological processes. The authors were able to show that the virus could attach to the surface of the schistosome, integrate into the genome of the parasite, and produce proteins that are important for the survival of the parasite. This is the first demonstration that a virus can integrate into the genome of a parasite. The results show that it is possible to use viruses to study these parasites in the laboratory, which should lead to a better understanding of how the parasites survive in the human body. This should help to develop new drugs that can be used to treat the disease.
Leptospirosis is a zoonotic disease that is caused by the bacterium Leptospira. Mammalian hosts that are chronically infected with Leptospira contain the bacteria within the renal tubules of the kidney. Dissemination of pathogenic Leptospira occurs largely via urine excreted from these infected hosts, with bacterial acquisition by new hosts occurring through cuts/abrasions or mucous membranes as a consequence of direct exposure to infectious urine or urine-contaminated water. The major leptospiral outer membrane protein, LipL32, is abundant within chronically infected mammalian hosts and is responsible for bacterial adhesion to the renal tubules of the kidney. However, the mechanism by which LipL32 is able to persist within the renal tubules of mammalian hosts is incompletely understood. We have previously reported that post-translational modification of LipL32 in Leptospira results in the incorporation of methyl groups into the protein. We have now determined the extent of post-translational modification of LipL32 within Leptospira grown in vitro and within chronically infected rats. We show that post-translational modifications occur only on lysine residues and that four of the modified residues overlap with regions previously identified as being reactive with leptospirosis patient serum. These modifications may contribute to bacterial evasion of the host immune system.
Immunity to viruses and tumours is generated by T cells, and these cells are able to expand to large numbers in the host. Inflating T cells are a subset of T cells that have undergone a process of rapid expansion in response to infection or vaccination. It is not clear if these cells are able to expand without impacting on the host’s existing immunity. We have used a model of viral infection to study this in mice and found that the host is able to support multiple inflating populations. We also found that the host’s immune system is able to recover the pre-existing inflating T cells following infection with a second pathogen. These findings indicate that the host is able to support multiple inflating T cell populations and may be able to accommodate the development of new T cell memory responses at different points in time without any evident cost to the size of the existing or the newly generated effector memory population.
Sexual dimorphism in insects is the most extreme form of sexual dimorphism known. Many insects have dramatic differences in body size, shape, color, and other traits between males and females. The evolution of these exaggerated sexually-selected traits is a major focus of insect biology. In stag beetles, the mandibles of males are much larger than those of females. We have discovered a molecular mechanism that controls sex-specific growth of mandibles in stag beetles. We show that a gene called doublesex (dsx) is responsible for the sex-specific growth of mandibles. The dsx gene is expressed in the mandibles of males but not of females. We also show that the growth of mandibles is regulated by a hormone called juvenile hormone (JH) which is secreted by the insect's endocrine system. We suggest that the interaction between dsx and JH is the key to the exaggerated growth of mandibles in stag beetles. We propose that the developmental mechanisms of sex-specific growth and the sensitivity to JH are interconnected in stag beetles.
Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is a complex metabolic disorder characterised by elevated blood glucose levels. T2D is caused by β-cell dysfunction and reduced insulin secretion in the presence of insulin resistance. This β-cell dysfunction is thought to be caused by mitochondrial dysfunction and reduced ATP production in β-cells. The genes that control mitochondrial function and insulin secretion are poorly understood. In this study we developed a genome-wide screening approach using human islets from individuals with Down syndrome (DS) to identify genes that cause mitochondrial dysfunction and reduced insulin secretion in β-cells. This screening approach identified a single candidate gene, RCAN1, which is overexpressed in human islets and when overexpressed in mouse islets, causes mitochondrial dysfunction and reduced ATP production. This is associated with reduced glucose-stimulated insulin secretion and hyperglycaemia. Our data strongly supports the concept that RCAN1 expression increases in T2D β-cells.
Rabies virus (RABV) is a zoonotic virus, transmitted from mammalian reservoir hosts to humans. The virus is the causative agent of rabies, an acute viral disease of the central nervous system in humans and dogs, and other mammals. Rabies is a significant global health problem, with an estimated 55,000 human deaths annually. In this study, we used a novel non-hierarchical method, affinity propagation (AP), to cluster RABV full genome sequences. The results were compared with previous studies, which were based on phylogenetic analysis. AP clustering revealed four main clusters, which were confirmed by phylogenetic analyses. The AP clusters were further sub-divided into two branches, one of which included sequences from the New World, and the other included sequences from the Old World. The results demonstrated the advantages of AP in comparison with phylogenetic analyses, as they provided more detailed information on the relationships among RABV sequences. AP clustering also allowed us to identify the lyssavirus species, which is an important step in the classification of viruses.
The vertebrate nervous system relies on myelinating glia to facilitate the rapid transmission of nerve signals. Myelinating glia are produced by two types of glial cells in the central nervous system (CNS) and peripheral nervous system (PNS). Oligodendrocytes (OL) are the CNS-specific myelinating glia and Schwann cells are the PNS-specific myelinating glia. Although the two types of glial cells have similar functions, they differ in their development and the genes that are expressed in them. Oligodendrocytes and Schwann cells are therefore equipped with different regulatory networks that control their differentiation and myelination. Here, we show that Myrf is a key transcription factor in the myelinating OL. It is induced by Sox10 and then cooperates with Myrf to activate the expression of other transcription factors that are essential for the myelination program. Sox10 thus acts as a positive feed-forward factor during oligodendrocyte differentiation. Our findings provide new insights into the regulatory networks that control the myelination of Schwann cells and OL.
Dendrites are the tree-like structures that receive synaptic inputs from other neurons in the nervous tissue. Different cell types have distinct branching patterns that are thought to be related to their specific functional roles. However, no branching statistic exists that reliably associates a particular dendritic branching pattern to its specific cell class. Here, we show that the regularity of the spatial input distribution is a useful measure that can be used to characterize the dendritic morphology. We found that the measure is weakly correlated with other commonly used branching statistics, indicating that it provides new descriptive power for dendritic trees. Using morphological models, we found that the regularity of the input distribution is a good predictor of the dendritic morphology. We also showed that the regularity of the input distribution is a better predictor of the dendritic morphology than the number of inputs or the number of branch points.
Zinc (Zn) is an essential transition metal ion that plays a critical role in host control of bacterial infection. However, the precise mechanisms by which Zn contributes to bacterial control are poorly understood. Here, we have investigated how dietary Zn influences host resistance to pneumococcal infection in mice. We show that Zn is essential for bacterial clearance in the lungs and that Zn-deficient mice have increased susceptibility to pneumococcal infection. We then show that Zn-deficient phagocytic cells are unable to kill bacteria, despite the presence of Zn within these cells. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that Zn is a key component of innate immunity and that its deficiency compromises host resistance to pneumococcal infection.
Genes are the building blocks of organisms. Genes are typically organized in a single linear sequence of DNA. The sequence of DNA is transcribed into RNA, and the RNA is then translated into proteins. This process is initiated at a region of DNA called a promoter. Promoters are associated with specific proteins that help to transcribe the gene. Divergent transcription is a common feature of mammalian promoters, where a second transcription event is initiated at a location that is antisense to the gene. This second transcription event is often short-lived, but it can produce a non-coding RNA that may participate in regulation of the gene. The promoter-proximal antisense transcription observed in T47D/A1-2 cells is a common feature of mammalian promoters, and it is associated with a variety of proteins that help to regulate gene expression. It is not clear whether antisense transcription is associated with the regulation of the nearby gene, or whether it is a general feature of promoters. We show that antisense transcription at promoters is associated with the downstream edge of promoter-associated chromatin features. This suggests that antisense transcription may be an important feature of promoters.
Dengue virus infection is recognized as one of the most important mosquito-borne human infections in the 21th century. In Brazil, the disease is an important public health problem associated with explosive epidemics and since DENV introduction in 1986, a total of 5,944,270 cases were reported including 21,596 DHF and 874 fatal cases. The confirmation of dengue fatal cases has always been troublesome because in most of cases only one blood sample is obtained and the death occurred around defervescence when positive results of expensive and laborious techniques like viral isolation and viral RNA detection might be difficult. The dengue virological diagnosis in tissues specimens is also achieved by experiences personnel by immunohistochemistry. In this report, we evaluate the usefulness of NS1 antigen capture tests in tissues of Brazilian fatal dengue cases. The sensitivity of the NS1 antigen capture was 87.0% in liver, lung, kidney, brain, spleen, thymus and skin. The NS1 Ag Strip was the most sensitive in liver, lung, kidney, brain, spleen and thymus.
HIV testing is an essential step in the HIV care continuum, but many people are still not tested. In China, HIV testing rates are increasing among men who have sex with men (MSM), highlighting the need for innovative HIV testing interventions. In this study, we evaluated a comprehensive crowdsourced intervention to increase HIV testing uptake among MSM in China. The intervention was developed using crowdsourcing and consisted of three components: a nationwide open contest call for images and concepts that encourage HIV testing, a 72-hour regional designathon for developing HIV testing strategies, and local participatory contests soliciting HIV testing messages. We then conducted a closed cohort stepped wedge cluster randomized controlled trial in eight Chinese cities to evaluate the impact of this crowdsourced intervention compared to conventional programs routinely provided by local Centers for Disease Control (CDCs) and community-based organizations (CBOs). The intervention was implemented over 12 months. We found that the crowdsourced intervention was effective in promoting HIV testing compared to the control period, showing an 8.9% absolute increase (and a 43% relative increase) in HIV testing during the intervention period. The intervention was particularly useful in promoting HIV self-testing. Our study extends previous research on crowdsourcing by using it to develop a comprehensive HIV testing service, evaluating its effectiveness in a pragmatic trial, and assessing the long-term effect of the intervention.
Cytomegaloviruses (CMVs) infecting humans and other mammals are viruses that can cause a wide range of diseases. These viruses have evolved a number of strategies to evade the host immune system, which often results in chronic infections. One of these strategies involves the inhibition of the host immune response by blocking the interaction between the immune cells and their respective receptors. Here, we have identified a novel class of viral proteins that can block the interaction between two important immune receptors, CD48 and 2B4. These viral proteins, named A43, are shed from infected cells within hours after infection, and we have found that they can bind to both human and owl monkey 2B4. Furthermore, we show that A43 blocks the interaction between host 2B4 and CD48, thereby preventing the activation of the immune cells and their cytotoxic responses. Our findings provide new insights into the strategies used by CMVs to evade the host immune response.
Myelin is a specialized membrane organelle that is synthesized by oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system (CNS) and by Schwann cells (SC) in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). Myelin is a critical component for proper nerve function, as it increases the electrical resistance of the membrane and reduces the membrane capacitance, thereby ensuring the fast conduction of action potentials. Myelin is synthesized by endogenous lipid synthesis in oligodendrocytes. However, whether lipid supply from astrocytes also plays a role in myelination remains unknown. We have now used mice with deletion of the transcription factor SREBP-SCAP in either oligodendrocytes or astrocytes to study the role of astrocyte-derived lipids in CNS myelination. We show that deletion of SREBP-SCAP in oligodendrocytes leads to CNS hypomyelination, whereas deletion of SREBP-SCAP in astrocytes leads to reduced myelin formation. We also show that oligodendrocytes incorporate astrocyte-derived lipids into their myelin membrane, and that a lipid-enriched diet can rescue hypomyelination in astrocyte-lipid-deficient mice. Our results show that myelin formation in the CNS depends on endogenous lipid synthesis in oligodendrocytes and on extracellular lipids provided by astrocytes.
The three-dimensional arrangement of amino acids is crucial for the function of proteins, and is therefore determined by the sequence of amino acids in the protein. However, it is not possible to predict the three-dimensional structure of a protein from its sequence alone, and the problem of predicting the structure of a protein is still considered to be one of the major challenges in bioinformatics. One way to tackle this problem is to use the information encoded in the sequence of amino acids to predict the contacts between amino acids. In the last few years, there has been a renewed interest in the problem of predicting the contacts between amino acids, and a number of computational methods have been proposed. These methods are based on the idea of global statistical inference, which allows one to learn a model of the data from the entire multiple sequence alignment, and then use this model to predict the contacts between amino acids. Here we describe a new method of predicting the contacts between amino acids, which is based on the idea of global statistical inference, and we demonstrate that it is able to predict more correct contacts than other methods.
Hantaan virus (HTNV), the prototype member of the genus Hantavirus of the family Bunyaviridae, can cause a severe disease of hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS) in humans. In this study, we aimed to identify the novel HLA-restricted T cell epitopes on the nucleoprotein (NP) of HTNV and to evaluate the function of the epitope-specific T cell responses on the clinical outcomes of HFRS. We identified five novel CD8+ T cell epitopes on the HTNV-NP from four HFRS patients. The single-positive 15-mer peptides which could primarily stimulate the CD8+ T-cell response were screened out, indicating that these peptides contained the CTL epitopes. The HLA-matched and mismatched EBV-B cells used to confirm HLA restrictions and the HLA class I molecules of the patients were shown. The epitope-specific CD8+ T cells were detected in 11 of the 12 (91.7%) patients with mild/moderate severity as compared with 7 of the 13 (53.8%) performed on severe/critical patients. The frequency of the epitope-specific CD8+ T cells in the acute stage was higher than that in the late stage in patients, and the epitope-specific CD8+ T cells in the acute stage were inversely associated with the peak level of serum creatinine and positively associated with the nadir of platelet counts during the clinical course of the HFRS. These results suggested that the epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell response could predict the different outcomes of the disease. Furthermore, a high proliferative potential of the epitope-specific CD8+ T cells was observed in mild/moderate patients, which could be an important clue for the development of the immunotherapy against the HTNV infection.
Human African trypanosomiasis (HAT) is a neglected tropical disease due to the infection by T. brucei gambiense in Western and Central Africa. The disease is a major health problem in the mangrove ecosystem of coastal Guinea. In 2014, an unprecedented Ebola outbreak struck Guinea with over 3,800 persons infected of whom 2,500 died. We aimed at assessing the impact of Ebola on HAT screening and caring activities in the three coastal Guinean focuses of Boffa, Dubreka and Forecariah. Overall, 213 patients were treated for HAT, 154 (72%) before and 59 (28%) during the Ebola outbreak in coastal Guinea. The proportion of patients diagnosed at a late stage of the disease has increased from 81% to 97% during the Ebola period. The number of patients attending the 3 months and 6 months post-treatment follow-up visits decreased from 44% to 10% and from 16% to 3% respectively, before and during Ebola period. The impact of Ebola on HAT screening and caring activities in the three coastal Guinean focuses of Boffa, Dubreka and Forecariah was major. The deficit of active screening campaigns and the progressive failure of HAT passive detection have left many undiagnosed T. brucei gambiense infected persons in endemic areas. This may have created in turn favorable epidemiological conditions for disease burden enhancement in some areas. The revival of the passive surveillance system together with large active screening campaigns allowing early HAT diagnosis and treatment are thus crucial and timely to more fully evaluate the impact of Ebola on HAT transmission and avoid possible dramatic bursts of disease prevalence in endemic foci.
Schizophrenia is a severe mental disorder that affects approximately 1% of the population. The disorder is characterized by symptoms of hallucinations, delusions, and disorganized thinking. Despite the relatively high heritability of schizophrenia, the molecular risk factors have so far been unclear. Sex differences in the risk of developing schizophrenia have been reported in two systematic reviews of the literature, both of which report that the male to female risk ratio is 1.4. This sex difference in the risk of developing schizophrenia may indicate a difference in the pathogenesis of the disorder. However, so far no sex-specific association has been reported in genetic studies. In the present study we examined whether sex-specific associations with schizophrenia are present. We analyzed DNA pools of 660 schizophrenic patients and 2,771 controls. We identified one SNP that is overrepresented in women with schizophrenia. This association was replicated in three different populations. This is the first sex-specific association reported in genetic studies of schizophrenia. The finding that the genetic association is replicated in three populations suggests that the association is not an artifact of population stratification. The association with schizophrenia may reflect variation in the function of the gene encoding the Reelin protein. The Reelin protein is a serine protease that acts via a number of receptor-mediated pathways on neurons. It plays a key part in corticogenesis, as demonstrated by the cytoarchitectural abnormalities of the null mutant reeler (rl −/−) mouse. The Reelin gene is located in a sex-specific manner in the human genome, with female and male copies of the gene located in different blocks of the genome. The association of this SNP with schizophrenia may suggest a possible pathway where sex hormones modulate gene expression, which by altering cortical structure, increases susceptibility to psychosis.
The fungus Candida albicans is a major cause of infection in humans. It causes disorders such as oral candidiasis, which is a common disease of the oral cavity, and systemic candidiasis, which is a life-threatening disease of the blood and organs. Oral candidiasis is usually treated with antifungal medication, but in cases where the infection is severe, the patient may require hospitalization. Understanding the mechanisms of oral candidiasis can help to identify new targets for antifungal therapy and to develop new antifungal medications. To identify novel genes involved in oral candidiasis, we compared the transcriptional profile of C. albicans strains infecting healthy oral tissues with the transcriptional profile of C. albicans strains infecting patients with oral candidiasis. We then identified 12 novel oral infection-associated genes and characterized their role in oral candidiasis. We found that one of the genes, DUR31, is required for the pathogen to cause oral epithelial cell damage, and for the fungus to survive in the blood. We propose that DUR31 is involved in the import of polyamine-containing compounds which are required for the fungus to grow in the blood.
B cells are responsible for the production of antibodies in the immune system. B cells differentiate in the bone marrow and then migrate to the secondary lymphoid organs where they undergo a process called differentiation. During this process, B cells change their expression of genes and acquire different functions. The differentiation of B cells is controlled by a complex regulatory network. This network is composed of a set of genes and transcription factors that are regulated by a set of signaling pathways. In this work, we present a dynamical model of the B cell regulatory network. The model is able to describe the differentiation of B cells from precursor cells to the different terminal cell types. In addition, the model is able to describe the differentiation process under the presence of external signals. Our model shows that the regulatory network controls the differentiation process in a branched and directional manner. Furthermore, the model predicts the existence of intermediary states that could be reached by the network. Finally, the model shows that the differentiation of B cells is irreversible.
