The brain processes information from the senses and from the body . This information is used to control the movements of the body . For example , when a person reaches for a cup of coffee , the brain takes information from the sight of the cup and the movement of the arm to plan the movement . The brain then sends signals to the muscles in the arm to move the arm to the cup . This is a complex process that involves many different parts of the brain . One of the brain’s main functions is to learn how to control movements in a way that is correct and efficient . To learn this , the brain uses a system called the cerebellum , which is located at the back of the brain . The cerebellum is important for many movements , including those that involve the arms and legs . It also helps with more complex movements , such as playing a musical instrument or riding a bicycle . A movement is made up of a series of separate movements , or ‘components’ . For example , a person reaching for a cup involves a sequence of movements of the arm , hand , and fingers . It is not clear how the cerebellum learns to produce a sequence of movements . One possibility is that the cerebellum uses a ‘cue’ , or signal , to tell it when to start each component of a movement . This cue could be a sound , a sight , or a feeling . A cue is usually associated with the movement itself , and the cerebellum can learn to associate the cue with the movement . However , it is not clear if the cerebellum can use a cue from one movement to control the next movement . If it can , this would mean that the cerebellum can learn to produce a sequence of movements . To test this idea , Kim et al . trained rabbits to produce a sequence of movements by using a mossy fiber stimulation as the cue for the first movement . The rabbits were then taught to produce the next movement by using a feedback signal from the first movement as the cue for the next movement . The results showed that the cerebellum could learn to use a feedback signal from the first movement to produce the next movement in the sequence . This means that the cerebellum can learn to produce a sequence of movements , and the cue for the first movement can be used as a cue for the next movement . This work helps us to understand how the cerebellum learns to produce a sequence of movements . It also suggests that the cerebellum can use a feedback signal from a movement to produce the next movement in the sequence . Future studies will be needed to understand how the cerebellum uses this mechanism to learn to produce a sequence of movements .
The protein mTOR plays a central role in regulating how cells grow and divide . It does this by acting as a switch that can turn on or off different cellular processes . The mTOR protein is activated when cells grow , and it helps to switch on processes such as the production of new proteins and the breakdown of existing ones . In addition , it can also switch on processes that help the cell to survive . Dysfunction in the mTOR protein can lead to a wide range of diseases including cancer , diabetes , and neurodegenerative disorders . However , it is not clear exactly how the mTOR protein works and how it is able to switch on and off different processes in the cell . Here , we present the first detailed structure of mTORC2 , a protein complex that is activated by a group of proteins known as the insulin/PI3K signaling pathway . The structure reveals that mTORC2 is made up of a core of four proteins , including the mTOR protein , that are held together by a number of other proteins . The structure also reveals that the mTOR protein is held in place by a protein called Rictor , which is found on one side of the core , and a protein called SIN1 , which is found on the other . The structure also shows that the mTOR protein is held in place by a protein called Protor-1 , which is not present in the core . This is the first time that the structure of mTORC2 has been observed , and it provides new insights into how the mTOR protein works . The structure also shows that the mTOR protein is held in place by a number of other proteins , and that these proteins help to regulate the activity of the mTOR protein . The structure also reveals that the mTOR protein is similar in structure to other proteins that are involved in cellular processes . Further research is needed to fully understand the role of mTORC2 in the cell and how it can be targeted to treat diseases caused by dysfunction in the mTOR protein .
The brain is capable of processing many different types of information , from visual and auditory sensations to emotions and memories . But how does it manage to integrate all these different types of information ? One possible explanation is that the brain reuses the same circuits to process different types of information , and this process is called ‘cortical recycling’ . This idea has been shown to be true in many different contexts , but it is still not clear which circuits are recycled and how they are used . To address this question , Schwiedrzik et al . conducted a series of experiments to investigate the relationship between motion and number processing in the brain . The experiments showed that when people look at a moving dot , they perceive the number of dots to be larger than it actually is . This effect can be explained by the fact that the same circuits that are used to process motion are also used to process number . The results suggest that the brain uses the same circuits to process different types of information , and that these circuits are sensitive to both motion and number . This means that the brain is able to integrate information about motion and number by using the same circuits . This is the first demonstration of a link between motion and number processing in the brain , and it shows that the brain can use the same circuits to process different types of information . Future studies will be needed to determine whether this link between motion and number processing is unique to the brain or whether other animals can also use the same circuits to process different types of information .
Musashi-1 is a protein that is involved in the development of the brain and the spinal cord . It is also involved in the development of cancer , and is often found in tumors in the brain and spinal cord . Musashi-1 is produced in the brain and spinal cord , but it is also found in many other tissues in the body . However , the role of Musashi-1 in the brain and spinal cord is not well understood . To investigate this , de Sousa et al . used a technique called high-throughput screening to identify small molecules that inhibit the activity of Musashi-1 . The screening process involved testing the ability of a purified protein to bind to a specific RNA molecule , which is a molecule that carries genetic information from the DNA to the ribosome . The results showed that oleic acid inhibited the activity of Musashi-1 . This suggests that oleic acid may play a role in regulating the activity of Musashi-1 . Further studies revealed that oleic acid binds to Musashi-1 in a way that causes it to change its shape . This causes it to bind to a different site on the RNA molecule , which prevents the Musashi-1 protein from binding to the RNA . The experiments also showed that a protein called stearoyl-CoA desaturase is regulated by Musashi-1 . Stearoyl-CoA desaturase is an enzyme that converts saturated fatty acids into monounsaturated fatty acids . Monounsaturated fatty acids are then used to make a variety of lipids , including those that are involved in the production of the protective myelin sheath that surrounds the nerve fibers in the brain and spinal cord . These findings suggest that Musashi-1 may regulate the production of lipids in the brain and spinal cord , and that this may be important for the development and maintenance of the nervous system . Further studies are needed to confirm this hypothesis .
Most of the chemical signals in the brain are transmitted through synapses , which are the connections between two neurons . The release of neurotransmitters from the first neuron , called the presynaptic cell , is controlled by the second neuron , called the postsynaptic cell . When the presynaptic cell is activated , it releases neurotransmitters into the gap between the two cells . The postsynaptic cell then releases chemical messengers called neurotransmitters , which bind to receptors on the postsynaptic cell , triggering a signaling cascade that can lead to changes in the strength of the synapse . The strength of the synapse can be increased or decreased by the release of neurotransmitters , and this is controlled by a complex process called synaptic plasticity . This process is important for learning and memory , as it allows the brain to adapt to changing conditions . However , the molecular mechanisms that control synaptic plasticity are not fully understood . In the past , researchers have focused on a class of proteins called synaptotagmins , which are known to be involved in the release of neurotransmitters . One of these proteins is called synaptotagmin-7 ( syt7 ) . It was previously thought that syt7 only controlled the release of neurotransmitters , but it was not clear how it does this . Now , Zhang et al . have shown that syt7 actually controls the replenishment of neurotransmitters in the postsynaptic cell . In mice , Zhang et al . created a mutant form of syt7 that cannot bind calcium ions , a key signaling molecule in the brain . In the mutant mice , the replenishment of neurotransmitters was defective , leading to reduced synaptic plasticity . This defect could be rescued by expressing the normal form of syt7 in the postsynaptic cells . Zhang et al . also found that a protein called calcium-calmodulin kinase II ( CaMKII ) , which is also involved in synaptic plasticity , is required for syt7 to function . Together , these findings suggest that syt7 and CaMKII work together to regulate synaptic plasticity . Further research is now needed to determine how syt7 and CaMKII interact and how this complex controls synaptic plasticity .
Depression and anxiety disorders are two of the most common psychiatric conditions , and they often occur together . However , there is currently a lack of effective treatments for these conditions . One promising approach is to target the immune system , which can become overactive in response to stress . The immune system contains a family of proteins called cytokines , which are released when cells are stressed . These cytokines can then activate other cells and cause inflammation in the body . One of the most important cytokines is a molecule called interleukin-6 ( IL-6 ) , which is released by the immune system when mice are stressed . Blocking IL-6 can reduce stress-related anxiety in mice . However , there are currently no drugs available to treat anxiety disorders that specifically target the immune system . One potential approach is to use drugs that target an enzyme called cyclooxygenase-2 ( COX-2 ) , which is involved in the production of a group of molecules called eicosanoids . These molecules can also influence the immune system and may help to reduce stress-related anxiety . In this study , Gamble-George et al . tested three different COX-2 inhibitors in mice that were stressed using a foot shock . The three COX-2 inhibitors reduced the anxiety-like behavior of the mice . The mice also had less activity in a brain area called the amygdala , which is known to be involved in the regulation of fear and anxiety . These results suggest that drugs that target COX-2 may be useful in treating anxiety disorders .
Membrane proteins are important components of cells , and help to transport molecules across cell membranes . These proteins can be difficult to study because they are sensitive to the detergents used to remove them from the membrane . Therefore , many researchers use synthetic scaffold molecules to capture membrane proteins and study them . However , the scaffolds used to capture membrane proteins are not ideal , and can interfere with subsequent analysis of the proteins . Now , Kumar et al . have developed a new type of scaffold that can capture membrane proteins without interfering with downstream analysis . This new scaffold is made up of a small peptide that binds to a membrane protein and is not affected by detergents . Kumar et al . show that this scaffold can capture membrane proteins that are large and complex , and that it can be used to study membrane proteins in a variety of different conditions . This new scaffold may be useful for studying membrane proteins in the future .
The genetic code is read by molecules called RNA polymerases , which copy the genetic information from DNA into RNA . This process is known as transcription . The RNA polymerases read the genetic code by matching the DNA template to a pool of RNA molecules called ribonucleotides ( rNTPs ) . If the RNA polymerase matches the wrong rNTP , it can lead to a mutation in the RNA transcript . This mutation can result in a faulty protein being produced , which can have a negative impact on the cell . Cells have mechanisms to detect and correct errors in RNA transcripts . However , these mechanisms can be less efficient in prokaryotes , which are single-celled organisms such as bacteria . These mechanisms are thought to be less efficient in prokaryotes because the transcription process is faster and less controlled than in eukaryotes . To investigate this , Li et al . used a technique called CirSeq to look for RNA transcript errors in the genomes of four prokaryotes . The results showed that the RNA polymerases in prokaryotes are less efficient at detecting and correcting errors in RNA transcripts than in eukaryotes . This means that prokaryotes are more prone to RNA transcript errors . The RNA polymerases in prokaryotes also had a preference for certain types of RNA transcripts , which can lead to mutations in the RNA transcripts . The results also showed that the frequency of errors in RNA transcripts increases towards the end of the transcript . This is because the RNA polymerases have a harder time distinguishing between the correct and incorrect rNTPs at the end of the RNA transcript . This suggests that the RNA polymerases in prokaryotes may be less efficient at detecting and correcting errors in RNA transcripts compared to eukaryotes . This could have implications for the fitness of prokaryotes and how they evolve . Further research is needed to understand the mechanisms of RNA transcript errors in prokaryotes and how they could be improved .
Loss of a hand can have a significant impact on a person’s quality of life and employment . In the case of amputees , the brain may reorganise to compensate for the loss of a hand , but the extent of this reorganisation has not been fully understood . Here , Hicks , Gomot , and colleagues investigate how different individuals adapt to hand loss in the adult human brain . The study used functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI ) and diffusion tensor imaging ( DTI ) to examine the brains of individuals who had lost one of their hands , either due to injury or disease , and compared these to healthy adults who still had two hands . The results showed that the brain reorganises differently in the two groups . The individuals who had lost a hand were better at using their intact hand , and this was reflected in patterns of brain activity . The findings suggest that the brain can reorganise in the adult human brain , even in the absence of any prior sensory deprivation . The study has important implications for the rehabilitation of individuals with hand loss , as it suggests that the brain can reorganise in response to a person’s usage of their residual limb .
The earliest land animals evolved from fish-like creatures and were thought to have had very similar skeletons to those of fish . However , it is now known that the skeletons of the earliest land animals were very different from those of fish . For example , the bones of early land animals were much thicker than those of fish and were covered in a hard layer of bone called a ‘callus’ . In addition , the bones of early land animals had a large amount of a protein called ‘collagen’ that is found in the bones of mammals and birds . This protein is involved in the development of bones and is also found in the blood vessels of the bone . The bones of early land animals also had a network of blood vessels that were important for the production of red blood cells . This network of blood vessels is absent in fish and is only present in mammals and birds . The bones of early land animals were also thought to be covered in a layer of fatty tissue called the ‘perichondrium’ . This tissue is not found in fish and is only present in birds . Despite these differences , the bones of early land animals still resembled those of fish in that they were made up of bones that were connected to each other by joints and were covered in cartilage . The bones of early land animals were thought to be similar to those of fish because they were all made of bone , but this study shows that this is not the case . Instead , the bones of early land animals were similar to those of fish in that they were made up of bones that were connected to each other by joints . The bones of early land animals were also covered in a layer of cartilage , but this cartilage was not the same as that found in fish . It was thicker and contained more collagen than the cartilage of fish . The bones of early land animals were also covered in a layer of fatty tissue called the ‘perichondrium’ , which is only present in birds . This layer of fatty tissue helps to protect the bones of birds from damage and also helps to produce red blood cells . The bones of early land animals were thought to be similar to those of fish because they were all made up of bones that were connected to each other by joints . However , this study shows that the bones of early land animals were actually very different . The bones of early land animals were covered in a layer of cartilage and were similar to those of birds in that they were covered in a layer of fatty tissue called the ‘perichondrium’ . The bones of early land animals were also thicker than those of fish and contained more collagen than the bones of fish .
Many people develop a dependence on alcohol as a way to cope with stress . Alcoholics may drink to excess and experience withdrawal symptoms when they stop drinking . Alcohol withdrawal can be a serious medical condition and can sometimes be fatal . The brain’s stress response system is thought to be involved in the development of alcoholism , but the underlying mechanisms are not yet fully understood . One of the brain’s stress response systems is activated by the neuropeptide dynorphin . This system is particularly active in the brain’s stress-response centers , including a region called the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis . Dynorphin is produced by cells in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis , and these cells are called Pdyn neurons . Dynorphin neurons are connected to other cells in the brain , including cells in the prefrontal cortex . The prefrontal cortex is involved in many processes , including decision making and regulating stress responses . It is thought that the dynorphin system is involved in the development of alcoholism , but it is not yet clear how this happens . Bloodgood et al . – including Bloodgood et al . – now show that the dynorphin system in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis is active in mice that have been drinking for a long time . This is particularly true when the mice are exposed to a stressful stimulus . The activity of the dynorphin system in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis is also associated with the presence of Pdyn neurons . Bloodgood et al . also show that blocking the activity of the dynorphin system in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis can reduce the mice’s response to stressful stimuli . This suggests that the dynorphin system may be a promising target for the development of new treatments for alcoholism . Further studies are needed to understand how the dynorphin system is involved in alcoholism .
When cells are exposed to stress , such as heat , they activate the heat shock response . This response involves the production of proteins that help protect the cells against damage caused by the stress . The heat shock response is highly coordinated and involves a number of different proteins that work together to protect the cells . One of the proteins that is produced during the heat shock response is called heat shock protein 70 ( HSP70 ) . HSP70 is a protein that helps to protect cells against stress by stabilizing and exporting other proteins that are damaged by heat . When cells are exposed to heat , the HSP70 protein is produced in large amounts and is stabilized by a protein called eEF1A1 . This means that the HSP70 protein is protected from being degraded and is instead stabilized and exported to other parts of the cell . In this study , we have shown that eEF1A1 plays a key role in regulating the heat shock response by controlling the production and export of HSP70 . We found that eEF1A1 is required for the activation of the heat shock response and for the stabilization and export of HSP70 protein . These results provide new insights into the mechanisms that regulate the heat shock response and suggest that eEF1A1 may be a potential therapeutic target for diseases caused by stress .
Flowers are a crucial part of plant reproductive success and play a key role in human sustenance . However , the mechanisms that control how a plant grows to produce flowers are poorly understood . The molecule auxin plays a central role in controlling flower development and is produced by cells in the plant’s shoot apex . Auxin is produced in small amounts , and the levels of auxin in the shoot apex increase as the plant grows . Auxin travels downwards through the plant , and this triggers a series of changes in the plant’s cells that leads to the development of the flower . However , the mechanism that controls how auxin triggers flower development is not well understood . One of the key steps in flower development is the transition from the shoot apex to the flower primordia , which are the precursors of the flower . Auxin binds to a plant-specific transcription factor called MONOPTEROS ( MP ) , which then activates a cascade of genes that ultimately lead to the formation of flower primordia . However , the mechanism that triggers the activation of MP is not known . Previous studies have shown that MP is associated with a group of proteins called ARF , Aux/IAA , BRM and SYD . These proteins are part of a complex called SWI/SNF , which helps to change the structure of DNA in the plant’s genome . This process is known as chromatin remodeling . SWI/SNF is essential for the development of flowers in plants , but the role of MP in flower development is not well understood . Here , Tiwari et al . show that MP recruits the SWI/SNF complex to the genes that control flower development , allowing them to be activated . This process is known as a chromatin unlocking mechanism . This study reveals a new mechanism that controls flower development and provides a new insight into how auxin controls plant development .
In 1958 , a man named Leona Emery died from a blood disorder called acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) . Emery's death was the first recorded case of AML in humans , and it was later discovered that she had a genetic mutation that increased her risk of developing the disease . Since then , researchers have discovered that many other genes are also involved in AML , including one called 7q22 . The 7q22 region is particularly important because it contains a cluster of genes that are often lost in AML . The 7q22 genes are called tumor suppressor genes , which means that they help to prevent the development of cancer . Deleting the 7q22 region in mice can cause AML , but it is not clear exactly which genes within this region are responsible for this process . Now , Wong et al . have used a genetic technique called targeted deletion to remove the 7q22 region in mice . This resulted in mice that were unable to produce a group of stem cells that are important for making blood cells . The mice also had a reduced ability to produce other types of blood cells , including white blood cells and platelets . These findings suggest that the 7q22 region plays a role in the development of AML . In addition , the mice had higher levels of a type of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) called superoxide , which is known to damage cells and contribute to the development of cancer . These results provide new insights into the genetic changes that occur in AML and suggest that the 7q22 region is a potential therapeutic target for treating the disease .
We can feel pain , temperature , and itching on our skin , but the underlying neural signals are still not fully understood . This is in part because there are many different types of sensory neurons in the body , each of which detects a different type of stimulus . The nociceptor neurons , for example , are activated when we touch something hot or burn our skin , while the mechanoreceptors detect pressure or movement . The somatosensory neurons are found in the spinal cord and the dorsal root ganglion ( DRG ) , which is a bundle of nerve cells located in the spinal cord . The DRG contains several different types of somatosensory neurons , but their functions are not fully understood . Here , Mishra et al . used a technique called single-cell transcriptomics to analyze the transcriptomes of three different subgroups of DRG neurons . This revealed that each of the three groups expressed a distinct set of genes , including genes that have not been previously linked to somatosensory function . The results suggest that there are many more subtypes of somatosensory neurons than had previously been recognized , and that these subtypes may have distinct functions . The findings also suggest that the transcriptomes of somatosensory neurons are highly heterogeneous , with many subgroups expressing a distinct set of genes .
In every living cell , a process called meiosis ensures that each individual organism inherits two copies of each chromosome . This is achieved by cutting the DNA in half and then reassembling the halves in a new way , which leads to the formation of four haploid chromosomes . Meiosis involves a series of steps , including a process called crossing over , where the DNA is cut at a number of points , and the ends of the cut DNA are joined together in a new way . This process is essential for the correct inheritance of traits from one generation to the next . However , the mechanism that controls crossing over in animals is poorly understood . Now , Zhang et al . have identified a group of proteins that are required for crossing over in the nematode worm Caenorhabditis elegans . The proteins , known as ZHP-1 to -4 , are found on the chromosomes that are involved in meiosis , and they work together to ensure that crossing over only occurs at specific points . In particular , the proteins help to ensure that crossing over only happens at the sites where the chromosomes are paired together . Zhang et al . also found that the ZHP proteins are required for a new process that helps to ensure that chromosomes are correctly divided between the two daughter cells produced by meiosis . These findings provide a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms that control crossing over , and how it helps to ensure that the chromosomes are correctly divided during meiosis .
Our cells are constantly growing and dividing to create new cells . To do this , they first copy their DNA into two identical sets of chromosomes , which are then split apart and put into the new cells . The process of copying the DNA is called cell division . It is a very complex process and involves many steps . One of the final steps is called mitosis , which involves the cell splitting in two and the chromosomes moving to opposite ends of the new cells . After mitosis is complete , the new cells are ready to divide again . The process of cell division is known as the cell cycle , and it is a fundamental aspect of life . If the cell cycle is not working properly , cells can divide incorrectly and form cancerous cells . The process of mitosis is controlled by a group of proteins called cyclin-dependent kinases ( CDKs ) . CDKs are activated by a protein called cyclin B . Once activated , CDKs cause the cell to produce new proteins that are needed for the cell cycle . When the cell has finished producing these new proteins , it is ready to divide . To ensure that the cell divides correctly , the cell needs to remove the cyclin B protein . This process is called mitotic exit . If the cell fails to remove the cyclin B protein , the cell will remain in the cell cycle and will divide incorrectly . This is why it is important to understand how the cell cycle works . However , it is difficult to study the process of mitotic exit in living cells , as it happens very quickly . To overcome this , scientists have developed techniques to study the cell cycle in a controlled laboratory environment . One such technique is to use a cell line called HeLa , which is a human cancer cell line that has been grown in the laboratory . These cells are widely used in research . To study the cell cycle in the HeLa cell line , the scientists used a technique called mass spectrometry . This involves using a mass spectrometer to measure the proteins that are present in the cells . The mass spectrometer can detect many different types of proteins and can tell how much of each protein is present in the cells . The scientists used a mass spectrometer to study the HeLa cell line during mitotic exit . The results show that the cell removes the cyclin B protein in a controlled and precise manner . The cell then activates a group of proteins called phosphatases to remove other proteins that are needed for the cell cycle . The phosphatases are also activated in a controlled and precise manner . The study shows that the process of mitotic exit is controlled by the removal of the cyclin B protein and the activation of phosphatases . The findings also reveal that the process of mitotic exit is more complex than previously thought . The study shows that the removal of cyclin B protein is the first step in the process , and it triggers the activation of phosphatases . The results also suggest that phosphatases are important for the correct completion of the cell cycle .
Mood disorders are common and can have a significant impact on a person's quality of life . A person with a mood disorder may feel sad or hopeless , and may have difficulty sleeping or concentrating . In some cases , a person with a mood disorder may experience suicidal thoughts or behaviors . Mood disorders are thought to be caused by a combination of genetic and environmental factors . A gene called Wolframin is one of the genes that is known to cause a mood disorder . Mutations in the Wfs1 gene can cause a mood disorder , and individuals with this condition often experience depression . Mice with a mutation in the Wfs1 gene also develop a mood disorder . Now , Hicks et al . have used a technique called optogenetics to manipulate the activity of specific brain cells in mice with a mutation in the Wfs1 gene . This revealed that the mice with a mutation in Wfs1 have a higher sensitivity to stress , and that this is caused by the loss of a protein called Wolframin from the neurons that make up the prefrontal cortex . This is a region of the brain that is involved in controlling emotional responses . The findings suggest that the prefrontal cortex may be a key area of the brain involved in the development of mood disorders . Future studies will be needed to further investigate this .
Proteins are the building blocks of all living organisms , and their structure and function are essential for life . A protein’s function is determined by the sequence of amino acids that make up the protein . This sequence encodes the protein’s three-dimensional structure , which in turn determines its conformation and dynamics . Proteins can change their conformation and dynamics in response to various stimuli . This is a vital mechanism for cells to adapt to changing conditions . For example , cancer cells rely on a protein called Hsp90 to mature and stabilize proteins . Hsp90 is an important protein in cells , and mutations in the protein have been linked to cancer . Hsp90 is a complex protein that consists of three domains . The three domains are connected by flexible links , which allows the protein to change its conformation and dynamics . The protein’s function is determined by the conformations and dynamics of the three domains . To understand how Hsp90’s function is regulated , Schmid et al . studied the protein in the lab using a technique called single-molecule fluorescence resonance energy transfer ( smFRET ) . This technique allowed Schmid et al . to measure the conformation and dynamics of individual Hsp90 molecules . The experiments showed that Hsp90 can change its conformation and dynamics in response to three different stimuli . The first stimulus was a site-specific point mutation in the protein . This mutation caused the protein to change its conformation and dynamics . The second stimulus was a cochaperone protein called Aha1 . The third stimulus was macro-molecular crowding , which is caused by the presence of many other proteins and molecules in the cell . The experiments revealed that all three stimuli had similar effects on the protein’s conformation and dynamics . However , they had very different effects on the protein’s function . This was because the mutation and crowding caused Hsp90 to change its conformation and dynamics in different ways . The mutation caused the protein to be more stiff , while the crowding caused the protein to be more flexible . Schmid et al . also found that the function of Hsp90 was dependent on the specific interactions between the protein and its cochaperone . The findings show that Hsp90’s function is regulated by a complex interplay of conformational changes , cochaperone interactions , and macro-molecular crowding . The results also show that changes in the protein’s conformation and dynamics can affect its function . These findings provide new insights into how proteins change their conformation and dynamics in response to various stimuli , and how this affects their function .
When a cell divides , it first creates a 'bud' , which is a small , rounded structure that grows until it is large enough to be visible . Eventually , the bud breaks away from the rest of the cell and grows into a new cell . In the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae , this process is highly coordinated: the cell creates a single bud that eventually breaks away and grows into a new cell . However , how the cell knows where to create the bud is not fully understood . One theory is that the cell has a 'front' that is slightly different to the rest of the cell , and this front is where the bud forms . To test this idea , the authors of the present study asked how yeast cells create a single bud . The experiments showed that yeast cells first form two or more buds , and then the cells compete to keep only one bud . The cells that compete for a limited number of proteins , which are called polarity factors . The experiments also showed that slowing down the exchange of polarity factors between the cell and the cytoplasm helps to maintain two or more buds , and that cells that compete for polarity factors also have a higher number of buds . The authors of the present study propose that the cell uses a combination of factors to choose where to form the bud . This work provides a new perspective on how cells coordinate the process of cell division .
Our cells contain a vast number of genes , each of which contains a long sequence of DNA that carries the genetic information needed to make proteins . Genes are made up of sequences of four different chemical building blocks: adenine , guanine , cytosine , and thymine . These sequences are stored in the DNA molecule inside the nucleus of each cell . If a cell needs to make a copy of a particular gene , it first makes a DNA template that is a copy of the original gene . The DNA template is then broken up into a series of short sections called ‘chromosomes’ and each chromosome is passed to a special molecule called ‘RecA’ . RecA is able to make a copy of the DNA template by finding the right sequence of chemical building blocks . This process is called ‘homologous recombination’ and it is an important part of the repair of DNA damage . However , it is difficult to understand how RecA is able to find the right sequence of chemical building blocks in a DNA template . Now , Roy et al . have used a technique called ‘single-molecule fluorescence resonance energy transfer’ to study the process in detail . This technique involves attaching a fluorescent dye to one end of a DNA molecule and then shining a laser on the other end of the DNA molecule . The dye emits a bright fluorescent light when it is excited by the laser , but only if it is in close contact with another molecule that has a similar dye attached to it . This allows the movement of the two molecules to be tracked as they interact with each other . Roy et al . found that the RecA molecule moves along the DNA template and makes repeated contacts with different sections of it . During each contact , the RecA molecule changes its position along the DNA template and also slides along the DNA . This allows the RecA molecule to search for the correct sequence of chemical building blocks . Roy et al . also found that the RecA molecule is able to recognize the correct sequence of chemical building blocks during each contact and then make a copy of the DNA template . This work provides new insights into the mechanism of homologous recombination and highlights the importance of the RecA molecule in repairing DNA damage .
Human metapneumovirus ( HMPV ) is a common cause of respiratory infections in children and the elderly . It infects cells in the lungs and the respiratory tract , and it can cause severe illness in some individuals . HMPV is an RNA virus , meaning that it contains a piece of genetic material known as RNA instead of DNA . The genetic material in HMPV is packaged into a protein called nucleocapsid , which is surrounded by another protein called P . The P protein is responsible for producing a molecule called RNA polymerase , which is responsible for producing new copies of the virus's genetic material . The RNA polymerase molecule is made up of three main proteins , including a protein called M2-1 . M2-1 is responsible for recognizing and binding to the genetic material in the nucleocapsid , and for regulating the activity of the RNA polymerase . M2-1 is a zinc finger protein , meaning that it contains a zinc ion at its active site . This zinc ion is important for the protein to interact with the RNA . The RNA polymerase molecule is also made up of three main proteins , including P . The P protein is responsible for producing new copies of the virus's genetic material . The P protein binds to the nucleocapsid , and to M2-1 . M2-1 is known to be involved in regulating the activity of the RNA polymerase . However , the molecular mechanisms underlying this process are not fully understood . The protein structure of M2-1 was previously known only from a protein called RSV , which is closely related to M2-1 . The new structure of M2-1 provides new insights into how M2-1 recognizes and binds to RNA . It also reveals how M2-1 can be regulated by RNA . This knowledge could be used to develop new treatments for HMPV infections .
The chloride ions in the body are vital for many cellular processes . For example , they help to maintain the correct balance of fluids in the body and they also play a role in how nerve signals are transmitted . It is known that chloride ions are concentrated in certain cells , such as nerve cells and cells in the lungs and kidneys . However , little is known about the role of chloride ions in other cells such as those in the lysosomes of cells . The lysosomes are membrane-bound structures that contain digestive enzymes that help to break down food and other waste products . The lysosomes are also responsible for recycling proteins and other cellular components . Jentsch et al . have now used a new method to measure the levels of chloride ions in the lysosomes of cells in the nematode worm Caenorhabditis elegans . The method uses a DNA-based fluorescent reporter to measure chloride levels . The experiments revealed that the levels of chloride ions in the lysosomes of nematodes are higher than in the extracellular space and that this is necessary for the lysosomes to function properly . The experiments also showed that reducing the levels of chloride ions in the lysosomes of cells in culture caused a decrease in the activity of certain lysosomal enzymes . The experiments also showed that lysosomal chloride levels are altered in cells from patients with lysosomal storage diseases . These findings suggest that chloride ions are a key component of the lysosomes of cells and that changes in lysosomal chloride levels can help to identify the cause of lysosomal storage diseases .
In order to communicate effectively with each other , animals need to be able to understand the intentions of others . For instance , if a monkey wants to show a human a specific object , it will first point to the object with its head , and then follow the human's gaze to the object . This process is called 'geometrical gaze following'. It is not clear which part of the brain is responsible for this process , and how it works . To find out , Gasser et al . trained two rhesus monkeys to follow the direction of a human's head when shown a picture of an object . The monkeys were then asked to follow the direction of a head when shown a picture of the same object again , but without any reference to the object's location . The brain scans revealed a specific area of the brain that was only active when the monkeys were following the direction of a human's head , but not when they were following the direction of the human's gaze . This suggests that the brain region that is active during geometrical gaze following is also involved in the process of understanding the intentions of other animals . Further studies will be needed to determine if this region is also involved in human communication .
When a child is born with both eyes closed , it can lead to problems with vision in later life . This condition is called amblyopia . The most common cause of amblyopia is when a child is forced to use one eye while the other is covered . This can happen when a child is born with a condition that affects one eye , such as cataracts or crossed eyes , or if the eye is injured . In most cases , amblyopia is caused by a blockage of the eye , such as a cataract or a blood clot . The blockage can prevent light from reaching the eye and cause the eye to shrink . As a result , the eye is unable to send signals to the brain . This means that the brain is unable to interpret the signals from the eye and the child may develop amblyopia . Amblyopia can lead to problems with reading , writing and even walking . If it is not treated early , the condition can worsen . However , if treated early , it is possible to improve the child's vision . This treatment involves training the child to use both eyes together . If the child is treated early enough , the brain can learn to use the two eyes together . However , adults with amblyopia are often unable to improve their vision . It is thought that this is because the brain can only repair damaged connections between cells in the visual system when the brain is active . Adults who are unable to use both eyes together may not be able to repair the damaged connections in the visual system . This means that even after treatment , the brain may not be able to fully recover from amblyopia . In a study published today in eLife , Niell et al . show that adult mice that are unable to use both eyes together are able to recover most of their vision when they are given a treatment that stimulates the brain during locomotion . This stimulation , known as running , causes the brain to become active and to repair damaged connections in the visual system . The results suggest that running can help adults with amblyopia to recover their vision . Future research will be needed to see if the same treatment can be used to help adults with amblyopia .
A complex network of mutualistic relationships connects all life on Earth . These relationships are driven by mutualism , where two or more species work together to benefit each other . Mutualistic relationships have allowed life to spread across the planet , but the evolution of such relationships is not well understood . In particular , it is unclear how new adaptations are made to exploit the full potential of mutualistic partnerships . One example of this is the mutualistic partnership between leaf-cutting ants and their fungal cultivars . Leaf-cutting ants collect pieces of leaves and chew them up into small pieces before mixing them with their feces and applying them to the cultivated fungal garden . The fungus grows and provides the ants with a nutritious food source . The ants are able to digest this food source because it contains enzymes that can break down cell walls . In particular , enzymes that can break down plant cell walls are produced in the ants’ feces and are found in the ants’ fungal cultivars . The ants and their cultivars have therefore evolved to use a chemical reaction called Fenton chemistry to break down plant cell walls . Fenton chemistry involves the use of iron and hydrogen peroxide to break down cell walls . However , it is not clear how the ants and their cultivars use this reaction . Here , Boomsma et al . show that leaf-cutting ants produce enzymes that can reduce iron and hydrogen peroxide in their feces . This enables the ants to produce hydroxyl radicals , which are needed to break down plant cell walls . The ants also produce enzymes that can remove iron from the plant cell walls . This allows the ants and their cultivars to use Fenton chemistry to break down plant cell walls and to maintain their mutualistic partnership . This study shows how the ants and their cultivars have evolved to use Fenton chemistry to break down plant cell walls . It also highlights the importance of the ants’ feces in the mutualistic partnership between the ants and their cultivars . This work could help to improve our understanding of how mutualistic partnerships evolve .
Cells divide into two daughter cells when they reach the end of their life cycle . This process is tightly regulated by a series of proteins that stop the cell from dividing when it is no longer needed . One of these proteins is called the Greatwall kinase . Greatwall kinase is a molecular switch that turns on and off cell division , and it is often mutated in cancer cells . However , it was not known whether Greatwall kinase can also promote cell division when it is overexpressed . To investigate this question , a team of researchers overexpressed Greatwall kinase in human cells and then observed the effects of this overexpression on cell division . The results showed that overexpression of Greatwall kinase caused the cells to divide more rapidly than normal cells . The researchers also found that Greatwall kinase was overexpressed in many human cancers . These findings suggest that Greatwall kinase could be a useful marker for cancer , as well as a potential therapeutic target .
Antibiotics are commonly used to treat bacterial infections . However , they can have negative side effects , such as altering the host immune system and causing drug-resistant bacteria . Antibiotics can also interfere with the function of host cells , such as macrophages . Macrophages are immune cells that are present in the body at all times and play a central role in the immune response to infections . Macrophages are activated when they detect bacteria and can kill the bacteria by releasing toxic chemicals . Macrophages also recycle nutrients from dead cells and help to maintain the integrity of tissues . Antibiotics can therefore alter the function of macrophages and affect the immune response . However , the impact of antibiotics on macrophages is not well understood . To address this , Talleux et al . investigated the effects of a new antibiotic drug called BDQ on human macrophages . The experiments revealed that BDQ increased the ability of macrophages to kill bacteria , and also activated the immune system . The results suggest that BDQ may be useful in treating bacterial infections . However , further research is needed to determine if BDQ has any negative effects on the immune system .
The lungs are a vital organ that enables animals to breathe in oxygen and exhale carbon dioxide . They are made up of a thin layer of cells that line the inside of the chest cavity , and these cells divide to produce new cells throughout the animal’s life . The cells divide by a process called branching , which involves the formation of new connections between cells . This process is coordinated by a molecular pathway known as the Hippo pathway , which is named after the hippo , a large animal that has a large lung . The Hippo pathway is an important regulator of growth and development , and it is thought to be involved in many diseases that affect the lungs . However , it is not known how the Hippo pathway controls the growth and development of the lungs . Now , Lin et al . have used genetic and cellular techniques to show that a protein called YAP controls the growth and development of the lungs . YAP is a transcription factor , which means it can switch genes on or off to control the production of proteins . This allows the cells to change their properties , such as their ability to divide . Lin et al . found that the Hippo pathway is activated by YAP , and that the Hippo pathway then controls the growth and development of the lungs . Lin et al . also showed that YAP controls cellular contractility and mechanical force production , which is important for the growth and development of the lungs . This work provides a new understanding of how the Hippo pathway controls the growth and development of the lungs . The findings of this study could help to develop new treatments for lung diseases .
Bacteria are tiny single-celled organisms that can cause many diseases in humans and other animals . Some bacteria are able to release toxins that can cause illness in humans and other animals . Other bacteria are able to survive in the human body and may cause infection . Bacteria can also be found in soil and water . The bacteria that cause illnesses in humans and other animals are called pathogens . The bacteria that can survive in the human body are called pathogenic bacteria . The bacteria that can survive in the human body are called pathogenic bacteria . The bacteria that are found in soil and water are called non-pathogenic bacteria . The bacteria that are found in the human body are called commensal bacteria . Commensal bacteria are not harmful to humans and do not cause illness . Commensal bacteria are beneficial to humans because they help to keep the body healthy by preventing pathogenic bacteria from gaining access to the body . They also help to keep the body healthy by fighting off other bacteria that may cause illness . Commensal bacteria are not harmful to humans and do not cause illness . Commensal bacteria are beneficial to humans because they help to keep the body healthy by preventing pathogenic bacteria from gaining access to the body . They also help to keep the body healthy by fighting off other bacteria that may cause illness . Commensal bacteria are not harmful to humans and do not cause illness . Commensal bacteria are beneficial to humans because they help to keep the body healthy by preventing pathogenic bacteria from gaining access to the body . They also help to keep the body healthy by fighting off other bacteria that may cause illness . Commensal bacteria are not harmful to humans and do not cause illness . Commensal bacteria are beneficial to humans because they help to keep the body healthy by preventing pathogenic bacteria from gaining access to the body . They also help to keep the body healthy by fighting off other bacteria that may cause illness . Commensal bacteria are not harmful to humans and do not cause illness . Commensal bacteria are beneficial to humans because they help to keep the body healthy by preventing pathogenic bacteria from gaining access to the body . They also help to keep the body healthy by fighting off other bacteria that may cause illness . Commensal bacteria are not harmful to humans and do not cause illness . Commensal bacteria are beneficial to humans because they help to keep the body healthy by preventing pathogenic bacteria from gaining access to the body . They also help to keep the body healthy by fighting off other bacteria that may cause illness . Commensal bacteria are beneficial to humans because they help to keep the body healthy by preventing pathogenic bacteria from gaining access to the body . Commensal bacteria are beneficial to humans because they help to keep the body healthy by preventing pathogenic bacteria from gaining access to the body . Commensal bacteria are beneficial to humans because they help to keep the body healthy by preventing pathogenic bacteria from gaining access to the body . Commensal bacteria are beneficial to humans because they help to keep the body healthy by preventing pathogenic bacteria from gaining access to the body . Commensal bacteria are beneficial to humans because they help to keep the body healthy by preventing pathogenic bacteria from gaining access to the body . Commensal bacteria are beneficial to humans because they help to keep the body healthy by preventing pathogenic bacteria from gaining access to the body . Commensal bacteria are beneficial to humans because they help to keep the body healthy by preventing pathogenic bacteria from gaining access to the body . Commensal bacteria are beneficial to humans because they help to keep the body healthy by preventing pathogenic bacteria from gaining access to the body . Commensal bacteria are beneficial to humans because they help to keep the body healthy by preventing pathogenic bacteria from gaining access to the body . Commensal bacteria are beneficial to humans because they help to keep the body healthy by preventing pathogenic bacteria from gaining access to the body . Commensal bacteria
Plants are incredibly diverse , and are able to survive in a wide range of different environments . However , they are all similar in one important respect: they are all made up of cells . Each plant cell contains a membrane that surrounds the cell and separates it from the outside world . The membrane is covered in proteins that allow the cell to communicate with the outside world and help it to grow and divide . Some of these proteins are able to trigger the release of hormones and other signaling molecules that help the plant to grow and respond to its environment . Other proteins help to transmit these signals from the membrane to the inside of the cell . One of the most important of these proteins is called FER , and it is found in many different types of plant cells . FER is thought to play a role in many different processes , including the development of the plant , the production of seeds , and the formation of flowers . However , little is known about how FER works . Now , Zhang et al . – including Escobar-Restrepo et al . – have shown that FER is able to interact with two other proteins called LRE and LLG1 . These proteins are also found on the membrane of plant cells , and they help to transmit signals from FER to the inside of the cell . The experiments also showed that FER is unable to work properly without LRE and LLG1 . This suggests that FER is able to detect signals from other proteins that are bound to the cell membrane , and that these proteins help FER to function . Further studies will be needed to understand how FER and LRE/LLG1 work together to regulate the growth and development of plants . Understanding how FER functions could help to develop new ways to help plants grow and thrive in challenging conditions .
The DNA in our cells is wrapped around proteins called histones to form a structure called chromatin . This structure is important for the regulation of gene expression and is present in all cells from bacteria to humans . The chromatin structure of eukaryotes , which include humans and plants , has been studied in great detail . However , the chromatin structure of archaea , which are ancient single-celled organisms that are found in environments such as salt lakes and hot springs , has been less well studied . Now , Wurtzel et al . have created a map of chromatin in the archaeon Haloferax volcanii , which has a genome that is about one-quarter the size of the human genome . The map shows that the chromatin structure of Haloferax is similar to that of eukaryotes , including the presence of a nucleosome-depleted region at the start of each gene . This suggests that the chromatin structure of archaea is conserved with that of eukaryotes . These findings provide new insights into the evolution of chromatin and the regulation of gene expression .
Animals will often choose to eat foods that are not good for them if they are available . For example , when they are hungry , they may choose to eat unhealthy foods like sweets or fast foods instead of healthier foods like vegetables and whole grains . This is often referred to as the 'junk food' choice . The reasons why animals make this choice are not fully understood , but it is thought to be linked to the brain's ability to 'taste' and 'smell' foods . Now , Linford et al . have shown that the brain's reward system is also involved in this process . Linford et al . studied the fruit fly , which is a model organism that is often used to understand how animals make decisions . Linford et al . found that when fruit flies were hungry , they chose to eat protein-rich foods over carbohydrate-rich foods . The fruit flies also lived longer if they were fed a diet of protein-rich foods . This was because the fruit flies' reward system was 'tuned' to respond to the nutrients in protein-rich foods . Linford et al . also found that a specific protein in the fruit fly's brain was involved in this process . Further experiments showed that fruit flies that did not have this protein lived for a shorter time . These findings suggest that the brain's reward system can help to determine what foods to eat and may also help to control aging .
Cancer is caused by genetic changes that alter the normal activity of genes . In clear cell renal cell carcinoma ( ccRCC ) , a common type of kidney cancer , a number of genes are mutated . These mutations often affect the genes that control how genes are expressed . However , it is not clear what happens when a gene is not expressed properly . To find out , de Oliveira et al . examined the activity of 50 pairs of ccRCC tumor and normal kidney tissue samples from The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) . The results showed that many genes with mutations were not being expressed properly . In fact , the majority of the genes were not being read correctly . This means that the genes were not being expressed as normal , but instead , the RNA molecules that carry the genetic information were being read incorrectly . De Oliveira et al . then asked if this abnormal reading of genes affected the expression of other genes . The results showed that it did . In fact , the abnormal reading of genes contaminated the expression of genes located nearby . This suggests that the mutations that cause ccRCC may also increase the production of abnormal RNA molecules . Further studies are needed to understand how these abnormal RNA molecules contribute to the development and progression of ccRCC .
Triglycerides are the main components of fats in the body . When the body needs energy , triglycerides are broken down into fatty acids and glycerol by an enzyme called lipoprotein lipase . Glycerol is then released into the bloodstream and can be used by cells to build new fatty acids . Lipoprotein lipase is a protein that is found on the surface of cells that line the blood vessels . The lipoprotein lipase protein is itself bound to a protein called GPIHBP1 , which is found in the endothelial cells that line the blood vessels . GPIHBP1 is a type of protein called a glycolipid-anchored protein , which means that it is embedded in the membrane of the endothelial cells and has a hydrophilic (water-loving ) head region and a hydrophobic (water-repelling ) tail region . The hydrophilic head region of GPIHBP1 binds to a protein called heparin , which is found on the surface of the endothelial cells . The hydrophobic tail region of GPIHBP1 is embedded in the membrane of the endothelial cells . GPIHBP1 is necessary for the proper processing of triglycerides in the bloodstream . However , the structure of GPIHBP1 was not known , and it was unclear how GPIHBP1 and lipoprotein lipase interact . In the current study , a purified protein was used to study the interaction between GPIHBP1 and lipoprotein lipase . The results showed that the acidic region of GPIHBP1 is intrinsically disordered and is involved in the interaction between GPIHBP1 and lipoprotein lipase . The acidic region of GPIHBP1 also helped to stabilize the catalytic activity of lipoprotein lipase , which is essential for its function . The study also showed that two distinct regions of lipoprotein lipase bind to GPIHBP1 . One region is embedded in the catalytic domain of lipoprotein lipase , and the other region is located in the C-terminal domain . The binding of GPIHBP1 to lipoprotein lipase is therefore an important step in the processing of triglycerides in the bloodstream .
Transcription is the process by which cells make RNA molecules from DNA . The process begins when a molecule called RNA polymerase binds to a promoter region of the DNA that contains the gene for the RNA molecule . This causes RNA polymerase to open up the DNA and copy the gene onto the RNA . The RNA molecule is then used to make proteins that perform various functions in the cell . The regulation of transcription is complex and involves a number of different molecules that can either stimulate or inhibit transcription . One such molecule is TraR , a protein that is involved in the regulation of transcription in Escherichia coli . TraR is a distant homolog of the DksA protein , which is also involved in the regulation of transcription in Escherichia coli . TraR is known to bind to the RNA polymerase and stimulate transcription from certain promoters . However , it is unclear how TraR stimulates transcription from these promoters . Khang et al . have now used single-particle cryo-electron microscopy to examine the structure of the RNA polymerase bound to TraR and the RNA polymerase bound to a promoter in the absence of TraR . The experiments revealed that TraR binds to the RNA polymerase in a way that causes the RNA polymerase to change shape and weakens the interaction between the RNA polymerase and the promoter . This results in the RNA polymerase being able to transcribe the gene more efficiently . Khang et al . also found that TraR binds to a specific region of the RNA polymerase that is important for the RNA polymerase to be able to bind to the promoter . This suggests that TraR modifies the RNA polymerase to enable it to bind to the promoter . The results of Khang et al . provide a detailed picture of how TraR works and how it regulates transcription . The findings of Khang et al . also suggest that TraR is a key factor in the regulation of transcription in Escherichia coli .
When we eat , the stomach releases hormones that tell the brain when we need to eat more . One of these hormones is called ghrelin . The brain receives these signals and adjusts how much we eat in response . However , it is unclear how the brain processes ghrelin to control the amount of food we eat . Kanoski et al . now show that ghrelin signals from the stomach connect with a brain region called the ventral hippocampus . The ventral hippocampus is involved in learning and memory , and Kanoski et al . found that it also controls how much food we eat . The ventral hippocampus communicates with other brain regions to control the release of ghrelin and the amount of food we eat . Kanoski et al . also found that the ventral hippocampus sends ghrelin signals to a brain region called the dorsal lateral hypothalamus . The dorsal lateral hypothalamus is also involved in learning and memory , and Kanoski et al . found that it helps to control the amount of food we eat . Together , these findings show that ghrelin signals from the stomach are important for controlling how much food we eat , and that the ventral hippocampus and the dorsal lateral hypothalamus work together to control how much food we eat . This study also shows that ghrelin signals from the stomach are important for learning to anticipate meals . Further research is needed to understand how ghrelin signals from the stomach control our appetite and how this is linked to our memory .
Dengue is the world’s most common mosquito-borne disease , and in the Asia-Pacific region , there are more than 1 . 8 billion people at risk of infection with dengue viruses . In 2013 , a major outbreak of dengue occurred in Fiji , with over 25 , 000 suspected cases reported . The outbreak was largely driven by the Aedes aegypti mosquito , which is also responsible for spreading Zika and chikungunya in the region . To better understand how dengue spreads , Kucharski et al . conducted a serological and surveillance analysis of the outbreak in Fiji . This involved collecting blood samples from 263 participants in Central Division , Fiji , in 2013 and again in 2015 , and comparing these to data on reported cases of dengue . Kucharski et al . found that dengue seroconversion increased with age , and that the majority of reported cases occurred in the 20–29 year-old age group . However , the highest infection rate was in the 10–19 year-old age group , which suggests that reported cases were likely to be underestimates of the true attack rate . The analysis also showed that there was little evidence of spatial heterogeneity in seroconversion , and that the outbreak decline in early 2014 coincided with a nationwide vector clean-up campaign . Kucharski et al . used this data to develop a transmission dynamic model to estimate the contribution of climate and control measures to the decline in transmission . This model suggested that an additional decline in transmission in March 2014 , which coincided with a nationwide vector clean-up campaign , could better capture the observed patterns in serological and surveillance data . The analysis shows the benefits of combining multiple data sources to examine dengue outbreaks , and highlights the importance of serological data for understanding dengue transmission dynamics .
Trypanosomes are the causative agents of African sleeping sickness and other diseases . They are parasites that live in the blood of mammals and birds . The parasites have a very special way of generating energy . They use a molecule called trypanothione , which contains two sulfur atoms . Trypanothione is produced in the cell and can be reduced by a redox reaction . This process is important for the parasite because it allows it to keep its energy levels stable . The trypanothione redox system is unique to trypanosomes and is not found in any other organisms . However , the redox system is not well understood . Now , a new study reveals that trypanothione redox system is not only present in the cell , but also in the mitochondrion of the parasite . The mitochondrion is the powerhouse of the cell . It produces most of the energy that the parasite needs to survive . The study also shows that the mitochondrial trypanothione redox system is less efficient than the cytosolic system . This means that the mitochondrial system may not be able to cope with high levels of oxidative stress .
Paget’s disease of bone is a condition in which the bones become weak and enlarge due to increased bone remodeling . The disease is usually caused by genetic mutations in the SQSTM1 gene . However , other genes that regulate the activity of cells called osteoclasts , which break down bone , may also be involved . Environmental factors such as diet , exercise , and viral infections may also trigger the disease . However , the role of environmental factors in triggering the disease is not well understood . To investigate the role of environmental factors in Paget’s disease , Fazal et al . studied the DNA of people with the disease and compared it to the DNA of people without the disease . The analysis showed that people with Paget’s disease had more genes that were ‘methylated’ , which means that the DNA molecule was modified by a chemical called methyl . The analysis also revealed that some of the genes that were methylated were involved in processes such as the immune system and bone formation . The results suggest that environmental factors may be involved in the development of Paget’s disease , and that epigenetic markers may be useful in predicting which people are at risk of developing the disease .
Blood is a vital fluid that carries oxygen and nutrients to cells throughout the body . It is made up of cells called red blood cells , white blood cells and platelets . These cells are produced by stem cells in the bone marrow , which are also found in other parts of the body . Blood stem cells are the precursors of red blood cells , white blood cells and platelets , and they can differentiate into any of these three cell types . Although we know a lot about how blood stem cells develop in mammals , we still have much to learn about their development in other animals . One of the most well-known models for studying blood stem cells is the fruit fly . In the past few years , several new techniques have emerged that allow scientists to study blood stem cells in the fruit fly . This has allowed researchers to identify and study blood stem cells in the fruit fly . Now , Sengupta et al . have identified a type of blood stem cell in the fruit fly that had previously been unknown . These blood stem cells are found in the lymph gland of the fruit fly , which is a small organ that produces blood cells . The fruit fly lymph gland is similar to the human bone marrow in many ways , and the blood stem cells in the fruit fly lymph gland have many of the same characteristics as those found in human bone marrow . The next step is to study these blood stem cells in more detail to learn how they develop and how they are maintained . This could lead to a better understanding of the development of blood stem cells in mammals , and could help scientists to develop new treatments for blood diseases .
The alveoli are air-filled sacs in the lungs that allow oxygen to enter the body and carbon dioxide to leave . Alveoli are formed when the airways branch into smaller passages , and they are made up of epithelial cells that line the walls of these passages . The epithelial cells are connected to fibroblasts , which are specialized cells that produce connective tissue . The fibroblasts and epithelial cells work together to produce the alveoli . However , the molecular mechanisms that control the formation of the alveoli are poorly understood . Zhang et al . have now investigated the role of a pathway known as the PCP pathway in the formation of alveoli in mice . The PCP pathway is a signaling network that controls the growth and development of many tissues . Zhang et al . found that the PCP pathway was active in both the epithelial cells and the fibroblasts of the lungs . This led to the formation of alveoli . Zhang et al . also found that the PCP pathway was required for the fibroblasts to migrate and to change their shape , allowing them to connect with the epithelial cells and form the alveoli . These findings reveal a new mechanism that is required for the formation of alveoli . This could help to improve our understanding of how the alveoli are formed and how this process goes wrong in diseases such as bronchopulmonary dysplasia .
The genetic code is read by the cell to build proteins that perform a wide variety of functions . This process relies on the cell being able to distinguish between the different amino acids that make up proteins . Each amino acid has a unique code , and the cell reads this code to select the correct amino acid to build the protein . However , sometimes the cell mistakes a different amino acid for the one it is trying to build . This can cause the protein to be damaged , or even to be completely incorrect , and can lead to the cell dying . This can be a serious problem for bacteria , as they rely on the correct building of proteins to survive . However , bacteria have a system that helps to correct errors in protein building . This system is called the quality control system . The quality control system is made up of several enzymes that can detect and correct errors in the protein building process . One of these enzymes is called the tyrosine aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases ( tRNA-tRNA-synthetases or TARS for short ) . TARS is an enzyme that helps to build proteins by adding an amino acid called tyrosine to a molecule of RNA . This enzyme is able to distinguish between different tyrosine molecules , and is able to correct errors in the protein building process . However , it is not known how TARS helps to correct errors in protein building . Now , Ibba et al . have used a combination of biochemical and genetic experiments to investigate how TARS helps to correct errors in protein building . Ibba et al . found that TARS is able to distinguish between tyrosine molecules that are similar in shape , but have different chemical groups on their molecule . This allows the enzyme to correct errors in protein building . TARS is also able to correct errors in protein building by editing the RNA molecule that is being used to build the protein . This means that TARS can correct errors in protein building even if the cell is unable to distinguish between the different tyrosine molecules . TARS also helps to protect bacteria from the effects of damaged tyrosine molecules . The next steps are to understand how TARS works , and to use this knowledge to develop new drugs that can help to prevent errors in protein building in bacteria .
All animals and plants have a cell-based body structure . This body is made up of cells that are held together by a network of fibres called the extracellular matrix ( ECM ) . The ECM provides a framework for the cells to grow and divide , and it also gives them support and protection . It is made of a variety of different components , including proteins , sugars , and other molecules . In insects , the ECM is made of a protein called chitin , which is found in the cuticle that covers the outside of the insect’s body . The chitin ECM is thought to be important in maintaining the structure and shape of the insect’s body , but the exact role of the ECM in the body is not fully understood . In the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster , the tracheal system provides the insect with the air that it needs to breathe . The tracheal system is made up of a series of tubes that branch off from the insect’s body , and these tubes are covered by a chitinous ECM . However , the precise mechanism by which the chitinous ECM helps to maintain the structure of the tracheal system is not known . Luschnig et al . have now studied the tracheal system in fruit flies and found that the chitinous ECM is essential for the formation of the tubes and the development of the tracheal system . The ECM is produced by a group of proteins called the kkv chitin synthases . The chitin synthases are produced by cells that line the tracheal tubes , and these proteins are also needed to form the chitinous ECM . The chitinous ECM is also important for the formation of the actin rings that line the cells of the tracheal system . These actin rings are essential for the formation of the tubes and are also required for the formation of the chitinous ECM . Thus , the chitinous ECM appears to be a key component in the development of the tracheal system . Luschnig et al . also show that the chitinous ECM is produced by the kkv chitin synthases in response to signals from the environment , such as the presence of other cells . This suggests that the chitinous ECM acts as a feedback mechanism to help maintain the structure of the tracheal system .
Our brain contains many decision-making centers , each with its own strategy for solving complex tasks . However , the way in which these centers interact with one another is still largely unknown . Lorteije et al . ( 2015 ) studied how monkeys make decisions in a task that requires them to trace a curve through a tree with two branches . They recorded from neurons in the visual cortex and found that the monkeys’ decisions were influenced by both the difficulty of the previous decision and the difficulty of the next decision . This suggests that the brain makes decisions in a hierarchical manner , in which earlier decisions influence later ones . Hyafil and Moreno-Bote ( Hyafil and Moreno-Bote , 2017 ) developed a simple model that predicts how earlier decisions affect later ones . However , this model was not supported by the data of Lorteije et al . , and the authors of this paper found that the model was incompatible with the way in which the monkeys’ decisions were influenced by the strength of evidence . The authors also found that the model could not account for how the monkeys’ decisions were influenced by the difficulty of the later decision . These findings suggest that hierarchical decision-making is a complex process that cannot be explained by a single decision-making mechanism .
Humans have a remarkable ability to learn new things rapidly . For example , if you move to a new city , you quickly discover which restaurants offer good food and which neighbors provide enjoyable company . The current study aimed to understand how humans learn new things and whether they use a similar process to learn the value of different objects . To investigate this , the researchers used electrodes to record the electrical signals that are produced in the brain of volunteers as they viewed images of objects . The images varied in terms of their value , ranging from the most valuable to the least valuable . The results showed that the brain processes the images using a similar set of neural signals , even though the objects themselves differed in terms of their value . The researchers also found that the brain processes the images in a way that is similar to the way it processes numbers . The results suggest that the brain uses a similar set of neural signals to represent numbers and objects . The findings suggest that the brain processes information using a set of neural signals that are shared across different domains . Further research is needed to fully understand how the brain processes information and how this process might be improved .
Salmonella bacteria can cause food poisoning and cause infections in people with weakened immune systems . Salmonella can also enter the body through the mouth and spread to the intestines , where it can cause chronic infections . Salmonella is able to survive in the intestines by producing certain proteins that help it to avoid the immune system and to enter the bloodstream . Once in the bloodstream , Salmonella can spread to other parts of the body and cause infections . However , Salmonella is unable to survive in the bloodstream for long and is often killed by the immune system before it can cause harm . In the intestines , Salmonella produces a protein called SseJ that helps it to enter the bloodstream . SseJ is a type of protein called a translocon , which is able to transport other proteins across the cell membrane . To survive in the intestines , Salmonella must produce another protein called SseJ , but it can also produce a protein called SseJ-related to SseJ ( SseJ-R ) . SseJ-R is not able to transport other proteins across the cell membrane , and it is not able to survive in the bloodstream . SseJ-R is a type of protein called a response regulator , which helps to control the production of other proteins . In this study , Foo et al . used a technique called super-resolution microscopy to look at the levels of SseJ and SseJ-R in Salmonella cells and to see how acidic conditions affect the levels of these proteins . The experiments showed that the levels of SseJ-R increase in acidic conditions , while the levels of SseJ decrease . This suggests that acidic conditions help Salmonella to produce SseJ-R and to survive in the intestines . These results provide new insights into how Salmonella can survive in the intestines and spread to other parts of the body .
Cancer cells can break away from their original location and spread to other parts of the body . This process , called metastasis , is the most common cause of death from cancer . However , cancer cells are not able to move around and spread to other parts of the body on their own . Instead , they need to be activated by proteins called oncogenes . These oncogenes activate proteins that can cause cancer cells to break away from their original location and move to other parts of the body . One of the most common oncogenes that can cause cancer is called Ras . However , the exact mechanisms that activate Ras are not fully understood . One of the proteins that can activate Ras is called Ral . Ral is part of a complex called the Wave Regulatory Complex ( WRC ) , which helps to regulate the actin cytoskeleton . The WRC is also involved in the movement of cells . However , it was not known if Ral was involved in the spread of cancer cells . To investigate , Biondini et al . used a new technique called optogenetics , which involves using light to activate specific proteins . Biondini et al . created a cell line that expressed a protein called CRY2 , which is part of the WRC complex . When light was shone on the cells , the CRY2 protein was activated and activated Ral , causing the cells to move forward . When the light was turned off , the cells stopped moving . Biondini et al . then looked at how the Ral protein helped the cells to move . The experiments showed that the Ral protein helped the cells to move by recruiting other proteins called exocysts to the leading edge of the cell . This allowed the WRC complex to activate and the cell to move forward . To find out if Ral is also involved in the spread of cancer cells , Biondini et al . looked at the levels of Ral in breast cancer samples . The results showed that Ral was over-expressed in many breast cancer samples , and that the levels of Ral increased with the degree of cancer aggression . These findings suggest that Ral might be involved in the spread of cancer cells . Therefore , inhibiting the Ral protein could be a new approach to prevent cancer cells from spreading .
Actin filaments are essential to life in all living organisms . They are used to build the structures that support cells and to transport substances around the cell . However , it is not clear how the filaments grow and how they change shape to perform different tasks . The filaments are made up of individual proteins that bind together to form a lattice structure . The filaments grow by adding new protein units to the end of the lattice . Once the filament has grown to a certain length , the protein units at the end of the filament dissociate and new filaments can form . However , it is not clear what triggers this dissociation of the protein units at the end of the filament . The filaments also have a non-elongating state at the end that is not understood . This non-elongating state is thought to be a result of a non-elongating state at the end of the filament . To understand how the non-elongating state at the end of the filament arises , Hsu et al . studied the growth and dissociation of actin filaments in vitro . The experiments involved using tethers to attach the filaments to a glass slide and then observing the filament using a technique called total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy . Hsu et al . found that the non-elongating state at the end of the filament is a result of the presence of a particular protein that binds to the filament . Hsu et al . also found that the presence of the protein also changed the shape of the filament . These experiments demonstrate that the non-elongating state at the end of the filament is not a simple inactive state , but is a complex process that is influenced by the presence of various proteins that bind to the filament . The findings of this study provide new insights into how filaments grow and change shape .
Cells produce proteins by making copies of the DNA instructions for each protein . This process is called transcription . Each step of transcription is controlled by proteins called transcription factors and , once the DNA has been copied , by proteins called transcription elongases . Transcription factors help to find the right spot on the DNA to start transcription , and then transcription elongases help to move along the DNA and build the new protein . The rate at which the transcription factors and elongases move along the DNA is not the same for all transcription events , and this can affect the final amount of protein that is produced . In order to better understand how the rate of transcription affects the final amount of protein produced , it is important to be able to measure the rate at which the transcription factors and elongases move along the DNA . However , measuring the rate of transcription events in real-time is difficult because the proteins involved are very small and the DNA is long and complex . To overcome this problem , Revyakin et al . developed a new method called fastFISH . This method uses tiny fluorescent probes to detect the transcription factors and elongases in real-time . The probes bind to the proteins and the DNA , and then emit a fluorescent signal that can be detected using a microscope . The rate at which the probes bind to the DNA can be used to measure the rate of transcription . In this study , Revyakin et al . used fastFISH to measure the rate of transcription in the bacteria T7 . This allowed them to better understand how the rate of transcription affects the final amount of protein produced . In the future , fastFISH could be used to study how the rate of transcription affects the final amount of protein produced in different cells , and how it is affected by environmental factors .
Cells contain long chains of DNA that are packaged into structures called chromosomes . Each chromosome is made up of many smaller units called chromatin . The DNA within chromatin is wrapped around histone proteins , which are similar to the spindles on a desk . The histones are covered in chemical groups called epitopes that can be modified to change the way the chromatin behaves . Some of these epitopes are called lysine , and they are modified by a chemical called methyl . Methylation is a common way to regulate the behavior of chromatin . For example , when a specific lysine is modified with a methyl group , it can make the chromatin more compact and make it harder for the cell to access the genetic information it contains . Other lysine epitopes can be modified to make the chromatin more accessible to the cell . Methylation can also be used to regulate the activity of genes , as it can alter the way the chromatin interacts with proteins that bind to the DNA . However , it is not clear how methylation of a specific lysine affects chromatin . Fission yeast is a small organism that is easy to grow in the laboratory , and it is often used to study the behavior of chromatin . Fission yeast has three copies of the gene that encodes the histone H3 protein , which is the most abundant histone in eukaryotic cells . Each of the three copies of the H3 gene encodes a slightly different form of the protein . In this study , Zhang et al . created a strain of fission yeast that had one of the three copies of the H3 gene modified . This modified form of the protein is called H3K9M . Zhang et al . found that the modified form of the protein causes the chromatin to become more compact and makes it harder for the cell to access the genetic information it contains . The modified form of H3K9M also prevents a protein called Clr4 from spreading chromatin across the genome . Clr4 is a protein that helps to form chromatin . It does this by adding a methyl group to the lysine epitopes on the histone . This makes the chromatin more compact . Zhang et al . found that the modified form of H3K9M blocks the activity of Clr4 and prevents it from spreading the chromatin . This means that the modified form of H3K9M is able to regulate chromatin in a similar way to the wild-type form of the protein . The next step is to study the effects of the modified form of H3K9M in human cells .
Transcription factors bind to DNA and recruit RNA Polymerase II ( Pol II ) to carry out transcription . The transcription process is regulated by the transcription factors binding to specific DNA sequences . However , it is still unclear how Pol II is released from transcriptional pausing . In eukaryotes , a transcription factor called P-TEFb is recruited to paused Pol II . P-TEFb is composed of two proteins: CDK9 and Cyclin T1 . CDK9 is an enzyme that phosphorylates the C-terminal domain of Pol II , which helps to recruit P-TEFb to paused Pol II . However , the precise mechanism of how P-TEFb is released from paused Pol II is still unclear . One possible way is that P-TEFb is released by a protease . JMJD6 is a protein that contains a protease domain and is also known as a lysine demethylase . JMJD6 was first identified in the 1990s , but its function is still not fully understood . Liu et al . show that JMJD6 can cleave a protein called MePCE , which is a component of the 7SK snRNP complex . The 7SK snRNP complex sequesters CDK9 and prevents it from being recruited to paused Pol II . Liu et al . show that JMJD6 cleaves MePCE to release P-TEFb , which then phosphorylates the C-terminal domain of Pol II . These findings reveal a novel mechanism of transcription regulation in eukaryotes .
Every living thing has two copies of its DNA , one inherited from each parent . This DNA contains the instructions for making proteins that help the cell to work , and it is packaged into structures called chromosomes . When a cell divides , it copies its DNA and splits it into two identical copies . This process is called cell division . It is essential for making babies and for the cells that make up all living things to survive . The process of cell division is called meiosis . In mammals , meiosis involves a specialised protein called PRDM9 , which helps to arrange the chromosomes and then divides the DNA into two identical copies . It is not clear how PRDM9 works , but it is thought to bind to specific points on the chromosomes , known as recombination hotspots . These hotspots are thought to be where the chromosomes exchange genetic material . It is not clear whether PRDM9 actually positions the chromosomes at these hotspots , or whether PRDM9’s role is to help the chromosomes pair up . Previous studies have shown that a protein called ZCWPW1 is co-expressed with PRDM9 in cells and is found at hotspots . However , it was unclear whether ZCWPW1 was involved in meiosis . Now , Li et al . – including Li et al . – show that ZCWPW1 is indeed involved in meiosis . In mice that do not have ZCWPW1 , the chromosomes fail to pair up and the cells cannot divide . These findings suggest that ZCWPW1 helps PRDM9 to position the chromosomes at hotspots . However , the experiments also show that ZCWPW1 does not actually position the chromosomes . Instead , ZCWPW1 appears to be involved in helping PRDM9 to repair the DNA after the chromosomes have paired .
X-chromosome inactivation is a process that helps to prevent females from having too many copies of each gene . This is important because females have two X chromosomes , while males have only one . Females need to find a way to inactivate one of the X chromosomes to prevent too many copies of each gene from being made . In females , one of the X chromosomes is usually inactivated in a process known as X-chromosome inactivation . This is achieved by a gene called Xist . Xist is a non-coding RNA that binds to a protein called Spen . Spen is a protein that can silence genes by recruiting other proteins to the inactive X chromosome . It does this by recognizing RNA molecules that are derived from a type of genetic element called transposable elements . These RNA molecules are found in many species , and they can be used to regulate gene expression . In the case of Xist , the RNA molecules are derived from ancient transposable elements . This suggests that Xist evolved to bind these RNA molecules in order to inactivate the X chromosome . However , it is not clear how this process works . Now , Zhang et al . have shown that Spen is a protein that can bind to RNA molecules derived from ancient transposable elements . This is the first time that this has been shown in mammals . The experiments also showed that Spen binds to RNA molecules in the nucleus of cells . Zhang et al . also showed that when the RNA molecules derived from ancient transposable elements are present in the nucleus , Spen recruits other proteins to silence the X chromosome . This process is cis-regulated , meaning that it only works in the cells that the RNA molecules are present in . This is the first time that a protein has been shown to recruit other proteins to silence a chromosome in cis . This work has shed new light on the evolution of Xist and how it functions to silence the X chromosome . This knowledge could be used to develop new treatments for diseases that are caused by X-chromosome inactivation .
Immune cells must move around to reach their targets . To do this , they need to polarize their cell shape , directing the long filaments that make up their cytoskeleton toward the target . The cytoskeleton is made of many filaments called microtubules , which are held together by proteins called dynein . In cells , microtubules are usually short , and dynein can easily move them along their length . However , when an immune cell encounters a foreign substance , such as a virus , it needs to move more quickly to attack it . In this case , the cell must change its cytoskeleton to increase its mobility . To do this , the cell needs to change its microtubules to make them longer , and this requires dynein to move them more quickly . This process is known as centrosome translocation . In this process , the cell’s centrosome ( which contains the microtubules ) is pulled towards the cell’s front by dynein . To study how the cytoskeleton is organized in immune cells , and how it is regulated , Janssen et al . created a type of immune cell called a Jurkat T cell that lacked a protein called KIF21B . This protein is important for controlling how long microtubules grow . When Jurkat T cells lacked KIF21B , the microtubules grew too long , which prevented the centrosome from moving to the front of the cell . This resulted in immune cells not being able to change their shape and move towards their targets . To understand how KIF21B helps to control the length of microtubules , Janssen et al . used a computer model that simulated the movement of microtubules in immune cells . The model revealed that KIF21B helps to restrict the length of microtubules by inducing them to pause and then break . This helps the microtubules to grow at a more controlled rate . If KIF21B is not present , the microtubules grow too long , which makes it harder for the centrosome to move to the front of the cell . These experiments show that the long microtubules of immune cells are important for immune cell function , and that the protein KIF21B helps to control the length of microtubules in immune cells .
Sexual encounters can have a big impact on the health of an individual . In many species , males can cause females to live shorter lives . In worms , males shorten the lifespan of the female , but females do not shorten the lifespan of males . This is because males do not produce sperm , whereas females produce both eggs and sperm . In worms , the sperm can protect the female from the negative effects of mating with a male . However , it was unknown whether the female could protect herself from the negative effects of mating . Now , Booth et al . show that young worms can protect themselves from the negative effects of mating with males . Young worms have sperm in their reproductive organs , which can act to protect them from the negative effects of mating with males . Older worms do not have sperm , and so they do not live as long when they mate with males . This suggests that the presence of sperm in the female reproductive organs is important for protecting the female from the negative effects of mating with males . This discovery could be used to improve the health of worms , and may also be relevant for other species .
Tuberculosis is the biggest cause of death from a single infectious agent . It is caused by the bacteria Mycobacterium tuberculosis , which can infect and cause disease in humans . The bacteria are able to survive and multiply inside the cells of the immune system and can also persist for long periods in the body . The infection is treated with antibiotics , but the bacteria are becoming increasingly resistant to these drugs . To develop new antituberculous drugs , it is important to understand the mechanisms of the infection . However , it is still not fully understood how M . tuberculosis grows and survives inside the host , how it uses nutrients , and how it evades the immune system . To address these questions , de Carvalho et al . investigated how M . tuberculosis grows and uses nutrients in the laboratory . The experiments showed that M . tuberculosis can use all 20 amino acids as a source of nitrogen , which is an essential nutrient for the bacteria . The bacteria can also use nitrogen from other molecules in the host . These findings reveal many aspects of M . tuberculosis metabolism that have not been fully understood before . The results may help to guide the development of new drugs that target the bacteria and prevent them from surviving inside the host .
Hif-3α is a protein that helps cells respond to low oxygen levels . It is important for the development of many organs in the body and for the proper growth of embryos . Hif-3α also helps to regulate the Wnt signaling pathway , which is important for the development of the body plan . In the absence of oxygen , Hif-3α is activated in the cells of the developing embryo . The Hif-3α protein is then degraded in the cytoplasm of the cell , and its activity is not regulated by oxygen levels . In this study , we show that Hif-3α2 is a novel spliced variant of Hif-3α . Hif-3α2 is expressed in zebrafish embryos under hypoxia , and it inhibits the Wnt signaling pathway and causes abnormalities in the development of the embryo . We also show that Hif-3α2 binds to β-catenin , a protein that plays a central role in the Wnt signaling pathway . We further show that Hif-3α2 inhibits the Wnt signaling pathway by destabilizing the nuclear β-catenin complex . These results suggest that Hif-3α2 inhibits Wnt/β-catenin signaling in a manner that is independent of its HRE-dependent transcriptional activity .
Stem cells are special cells that can grow into different types of cells in the body . They are found in all animals , including humans , and are important for maintaining tissues and organs throughout life . A stem cell is surrounded by a specialized group of cells called a niche . The stem cell and its niche are designed to keep the stem cell in a state of dormancy , ready to divide and give rise to new cells when needed . Stem cell niches are often found in tissues that are exposed to the outside of the body , such as the skin and the lining of the gut . In the nematode worm Caenorhabditis elegans , stem cells are found in the reproductive organs of the worm , known as the gonad . The stem cells in the worm’s gonad are surrounded by a niche of cells called the distal tip cell ( DTC ) . These cells are important for maintaining the stem cells in their dormant state . The DTC also helps the stem cells to divide and give rise to new cells . The stem cells are separated from the niche by a thin layer of cells called the gonad sheath . Previous studies have shown that stem cells in the worm’s gonad divide in a pattern that involves moving between the DTC and the sheath . However , it was unclear how the stem cells were able to leave the niche to divide . Gordon et al . used live imaging of the worms to study the gonad and its stem cells . The experiments revealed that stem cells in the gonad divide asymmetrically , with one daughter cell staying in the niche and the other daughter cell leaving the niche and dividing to form a new stem cell . This asymmetry is important for maintaining a balance between stem cell renewal and differentiation . Gordon et al . also found that the sheath cells are able to regulate the stem cells in the progenitor zone of the gonad . These findings reveal a new mechanism that regulates stem cell niches and suggest that this mechanism may be important in other organisms .
Proteins and other biomolecules perform a wide range of tasks in the cell . They help to build and repair structures , transport molecules , and even make decisions . But how do these molecules perform these tasks when they are packed into a tiny space ? Answering this question is one of the key challenges in biology . To help answer this question , researchers have been studying how proteins and other biomolecules behave in a cell using a combination of experiments and computer simulations . However , the cell is a very complex environment that is difficult to model using computer simulations . Now , Feig et al . have used computer simulations to study the behavior of biomolecules in a cell . The simulations were based on a detailed model of the cell that included all the components of a cell , including proteins , nucleic acids , and metabolites . The model also included the water and ions that are present in the cell . The simulations showed that the cell is a very crowded space . In fact , the cell is so crowded that the proteins and other biomolecules are often in contact with each other . This can make it difficult for the proteins to perform their normal functions . Feig et al . found that the proteins can become more compact as a result of this crowding , which can lead to changes in their shape and the way they interact with other molecules . This can even lead to the protein breaking apart or becoming inactive . This is the first time that this effect has been observed in a cell . It suggests that the crowded cell environment could affect the behavior of proteins and other biomolecules . The next step will be to study this in detail in cells . This could help to develop new drugs that target the interactions between proteins and other biomolecules in cells .
Influenza viruses are responsible for more than 200 , 000 deaths worldwide each year . These viruses can infect cells in the human body and cause illness , but they can also infect cells in the body of birds . The viruses are encased in a fatty membrane , and they enter the host cells by fusing with the membranes of the host cells . The protein hemagglutinin is a part of the influenza virus and plays a key role in the fusion process . Hemagglutinin is a protein that is found on the surface of the influenza virus . When the virus approaches the host cell , it binds to the host cell membrane . This binding causes a change in the shape of the hemagglutinin protein , which then helps to fuse the virus with the host cell membrane . The influenza virus has a protein called HA that helps to fuse the virus with the host cell membrane . The HA protein is made up of three subunits , and it can bind to the host cell membrane in several different ways . One way is by binding to a molecule called sialic acid , which is found on the surface of the host cell membrane . This binding causes the virus to stop moving and to become immobile . The influenza virus can then fuse with the host cell membrane by releasing a protein called the fusion peptide from the HA protein . This fusion peptide then inserts into the host cell membrane . The fusion peptide can then trigger the membrane of the virus to fuse with the host cell membrane . The influenza virus can also use another protein called M2 to release the viral genetic material into the host cell . The membrane fusion process is a complex and highly regulated process . The exact steps of the fusion process are not fully understood , but the HA protein is thought to play a key role . In this study , Ivanovic et al . studied the HA protein from the influenza virus using a technique called single-virion analysis . This technique involves using a laser to observe the movement of individual viruses as they fuse with a planar membrane . The experiments showed that the HA protein can form a long-lived intermediate state that is stabilized by the fusion peptide and other molecules on the host cell membrane . This intermediate state is thought to be the key to the virus fusing with the host cell membrane . The intermediate state is also thought to be the target for drugs that block the influenza virus from entering the host cell . The results of the study show that the HA protein is a key component of the influenza virus and that it is essential for the virus to fuse with the host cell membrane . The study also suggests that the HA protein may be a useful target for drugs that prevent the virus from infecting the host cell .
The brain contains a vast number of neurons that communicate with each other through connections called synapses . Each neuron can send signals to many other neurons through these synapses , and the strength of these connections can change over time . However , there is still much that is not known about how the connections between neurons are organized in the brain , and how they are regulated . To address this , scientists need to build large-scale maps of the brain’s neural circuits . But this is difficult to achieve , as it requires collecting a large number of measurements of connections in a large number of neurons . Here , Tasic et al . describe a new method that uses a technique called two-photon microscopy to measure the connections between neurons in the mouse brain . Tasic et al . used a laser to activate neurons and measure the activity of the neurons in the brain . This allowed the researchers to map the connections between the neurons . Tasic et al . found that the connections between neurons are sparse , but that the connections are stronger in certain types of neurons . The findings of Tasic et al . provide a new view of the brain’s neural circuits . This new method will allow researchers to map the connections between neurons in the human brain and other species .
The neural circuits that control aggression are poorly understood . This is partly because the underlying mechanisms of aggression are not well defined , and partly because few genetic tools are available for studying these circuits in animals . One of the most promising approaches to understanding aggression in animals is to use the fruit fly ( Drosophila melanogaster ) as a model . The fruit fly is easy to manipulate in the laboratory , and has a relatively simple nervous system that makes it possible to perform large-scale screens for neurons that control aggressive behaviors . This is exactly what Wang et al . have done . Wang et al . used a technique called optogenetics to selectively activate specific neurons in the brain of male fruit flies . This allowed the researchers to identify a small group of neurons that control aggression in male fruit flies . The neurons are located in a brain region called the medial hypothalamus , and are known as P1 neurons . Previous studies had identified these neurons as being involved in controlling aggressive behavior , but it was not clear how they functioned . The experiments by Wang et al . show that activation of P1 neurons causes flies to become aggressive , even when they are not interacting with other fruit flies . The persistent aggression is thought to be triggered by the activation of a specific internal state in the fruit fly . The experiments also suggest that this internal state is fly intrinsic , meaning that it can be induced by a single episode of neuronal activation in a fruit fly that is not interacting with other fruit flies . Further studies are needed to understand how this internal state is maintained and how it is related to aggressive behavior in other animals .
Sexual reproduction generates new combinations of alleles , and is therefore a driving force behind evolution . The genetic material of organisms is divided into two copies , each of which contains one set of alleles . In sexually reproducing organisms , the two copies are inherited from the mother and father , respectively . This means that each offspring inherits a copy of each of the alleles from each parent . However , during meiosis , the genetic material of sexually reproducing organisms is divided into four sets of four chromosomes , two from each parent . This means that each offspring inherits two copies of each allele , which are not the same as the two copies inherited from each parent . This process , known as recombination , is thought to be an important mechanism for generating new allele combinations , which in turn can help to drive evolution . However , the genetic consequences of recombination are not well understood . A . thaliana is a model organism that has been studied extensively in the laboratory . The genetic material of A . thaliana is divided into 10 chromosomes , each of which contains four copies of a set of 400 alleles . A . thaliana is also self-fertilizing , meaning that the offspring produced by self-fertilization are genetically identical to their parents . Previous studies of A . thaliana have shown that meiotic recombination is widespread , and that it can generate new allele combinations . However , the genetic consequences of recombination in A . thaliana are not well understood . In this study , we investigated the genetic consequences of meiotic recombination in A . thaliana . We found that meiotic recombination is a widespread process in A . thaliana , and that it can generate new allele combinations . We also found that the frequency of meiotic recombination is higher in regions that are rich in a particular sequence motif , and lower in regions that are bound by nucleosomes . These observations suggest that meiotic recombination in A . thaliana targets open chromatin .
Athletes and musicians need to train for many years to master their crafts . Surgeons and artists also need to spend a lot of time practicing . But fatigue can make it difficult to learn new skills . For example , after a long day of training , it is hard to perform a task that requires fine motor control . Here , Branscheidt et al . show that fatigue can also impair the learning of new motor skills . The experiments were performed with healthy volunteers . The first experiment involved training participants to press a computer key with their thumb and index finger to move a cursor on a screen to reach different targets . The second experiment involved using a computer program to generate a sequence of 10 keys that participants had to press in the correct order . Participants were either trained in a fatigued state or in a non-fatigued state . The experiments showed that fatigue reduced the ability to learn the motor tasks . Moreover , fatigue reduced the ability to learn a new sequence of 10 keys . The results suggest that fatigue can interfere with the learning of new motor skills . This may be important for musicians , artists and surgeons who spend long hours practicing their crafts . The results may also help to explain why some patients with neurological conditions are unable to learn new motor skills after an injury or stroke .
DNA repair is a vital process that helps cells to survive and divide . When DNA is damaged , a cell can either repair it or remove the damaged section of DNA altogether . The process of removing DNA is called DNA repair . If a cell cannot repair DNA , it will die . However , some cancer cells are able to evade DNA repair by blocking the process of removing DNA . This is known as DNA repair deficiency . In cancer cells with DNA repair deficiency , the damaged DNA can accumulate and cause mutations . Therefore , it is important to find ways to treat cancer cells with DNA repair deficiency . One way to do this is to use drugs that inhibit the DNA repair process . The most well-known example of a DNA repair inhibitor is a drug called PARP inhibitor . PARP inhibitors are used to treat many types of cancer , including breast , ovarian , and prostate cancer . However , some cancer cells become resistant to PARP inhibitors . This means that the cancer cells can continue to divide and grow even though they have a DNA repair deficiency . King et al . have now developed a new way to study how DNA repair works in fission yeast . King et al . created a new technique to visualize DNA repair in individual fission yeast cells . Using this technique , King et al . found that fission yeast cells with DNA repair deficiency can remove DNA faster than healthy cells . King et al . also found that fission yeast cells with DNA repair deficiency can remove DNA by a different process than healthy cells . This process is slower than the process used by healthy cells . King et al . also found that fission yeast cells with DNA repair deficiency can remove DNA faster than healthy cells when the DNA repair deficiency is caused by the loss of a protein called Rev7 . This suggests that the loss of Rev7 is responsible for the faster DNA repair in cancer cells . King et al . also found that the loss of a protein called Crb2 causes cancer cells to use a different process to remove DNA . King et al . suggest that the loss of either Crb2 or Rev7 allows cancer cells to remove DNA faster than healthy cells , which could help to explain how cancer cells become resistant to PARP inhibitors . This finding could help to develop new treatments for cancer cells with DNA repair deficiency .
The genes that control the development of an organism are often disrupted in diseases , and mutations in these genes cause many genetic diseases . However , not all mutations are equally harmful; some have no effect , while others cause mild or severe symptoms . The reasons why some mutations cause more severe symptoms than others are not well understood . The genetic background of an organism can influence how harmful a mutation is , but the extent of this effect is often not known . This is particularly true in species that are well-understood , such as the nematode worm Caenorhabditis elegans . It was known that the worms used in research had been genetically altered , but it was not clear how this alteration affected the way they develop . Now , Paaby et al . have used a new approach to show that the worms have a much more complex genetic background than previously thought . The experiments revealed that many genes that are important for the development of the embryo are modified in different ways in different worms . This suggests that the worms may have a more complex genetic makeup than was previously thought , and that the genetic background can affect how severe a mutation is . The results also show that many genes that are known to be important for the development of the embryo are modified in ways that are not understood . Further research is needed to understand the effects of these modifications and to determine how they affect the development of the embryo . The findings also suggest that the genetic background of worms can influence how severe genetic diseases are in humans and other organisms .
Bacteria are single-celled organisms that are essential to many biological processes and are used in the production of foods such as bread and yogurt . Most bacteria can consume a wide range of nutrients and use different pathways to break them down . However , in some cases the nutrients that bacteria consume can build up to levels that are toxic to the cells , and this can cause them to die . One way for bacteria to avoid this problem is to produce a byproduct that is toxic to other cells . For example , when bacteria consume glucose and malate , they can produce a byproduct called acetate that is toxic to the cells . To avoid this problem , bacteria can switch between different metabolic pathways in response to the levels of acetate present in their environment . In a particular species of bacteria called Bacillus subtilis , cells can switch between two different metabolic pathways: one that produces acetate and another that produces a byproduct called acetoin . This process is known as the ‘acetate switch’ . In this study , Rosenthal et al . used a technique called fluorescence microscopy to study the acetate switch in single cells . This revealed that some cells in the population switch between the two metabolic pathways , and that this switch is triggered by the production of acetate . The results suggest that cells that produce acetate may be more likely to survive in environments with high levels of acetate , and that these cells may be able to adapt to changing environments . This could help to explain why some bacteria are able to survive in environments that are challenging for other cells . Future studies will help to understand how this switch works , and how it can be used to improve the production of foods by bacteria .
In all living organisms , DNA is copied in two separate processes: DNA replication and DNA repair . When DNA replication is complete , the genetic information is passed on to the next generation of cells . However , DNA repair is necessary to fix damage to DNA that occurs during DNA replication . In the DNA of eukaryotic cells ( including humans ) , a process called homologous recombination ( HR ) is used to repair DNA . This process involves finding a matching piece of DNA and swapping it in the damaged region . In some cases , HR can lead to genetic changes that can cause disease . However , the mechanisms that trigger HR are not well understood . A new study has now revealed that the DNA of the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe contains a protein called Rad52 , which is required to trigger HR . The study also shows that the timing of Rad52's recruitment to the DNA is important for the timing of the HR . The experiments show that Rad52 is recruited to the damaged DNA within 10–60 minutes of the DNA replication process being blocked . This is faster than in other organisms , such as the bacteria Escherichia coli . The study also shows that HR is initiated before DNA repair is completed . This suggests that the process of HR is an alternative to DNA repair , and is only used when DNA repair is not possible .
Sexual reproduction is the process by which living organisms pass on their genetic material to their offspring . It involves the production of sperm and egg cells that contain half of the parent's genetic material , and the fusion of these cells to form a single cell with a complete set of genetic instructions . The process of sexual reproduction also involves a process called meiosis , which is the division of a cell into four daughter cells each containing half of the genetic material . During meiosis , chromosomes break up and exchange genetic material with their neighbors to ensure that each new cell has a unique combination of genes . This process is important for ensuring that the genetic diversity of a species is maintained . Meiosis also creates a small chance of genetic mutations , which can lead to changes in the genetic material . One type of genetic mutation is known as a non-crossover ( NCO ) , which is thought to occur when chromosomes exchange genetic material in a way that is not part of the normal meiosis process . It is not clear how often NCOs occur in mammals , but they are thought to be rare . To learn more about NCO , Deguise et al . analyzed the genetic material of 34 Mexican American families using a technique called genome-wide association studies . This method involves comparing the genetic material of individuals in a population to identify genetic differences between them . The results suggest that NCOs occur at a rate of 5 . 9 × 10−6 per bp/generation , which is similar to the rate of recombination events known as crossover events . The data also revealed that NCOs tend to occur at sites where a crossover event also occurs . In addition , the results showed that NCOs are more likely to occur in regions of the genome where a crossover event occurs , and that NCOs tend to be more common in individuals with a high recombination rate . Finally , the results indicate that a gene called PRDM9 , which is involved in the repair of DNA breaks , is responsible for a form of genetic bias in the repair of DNA breaks . Further work is needed to understand the effects of NCOs on genetic variation in mammals .
DNA can be damaged by radiation , toxins or other agents . The DNA repair machinery recognizes the damage and then repairs the damaged DNA . The DNA repair machinery is made up of a number of different proteins , including XRCC4 , XLF and LIG4 . XRCC4 and XLF are part of a group of proteins that work together to repair DNA . XRCC4 and XLF are often seen together in the DNA repair machinery , and they are thought to work together to help the other proteins to repair DNA . The DNA repair machinery is an important process that helps to maintain the integrity of DNA and prevent cancer . The DNA repair machinery is also involved in repairing DNA in the embryo and in the cells of the immune system . The DNA repair machinery is also responsible for repairing DNA in cancer cells . The DNA repair machinery is made up of several different proteins , including XRCC4 , XLF and LIG4 . XRCC4 and XLF are part of a group of proteins that work together to repair DNA . XRCC4 and XLF are often seen together in the DNA repair machinery , and they are thought to work together to help the other proteins to repair DNA . The DNA repair machinery is an important process that helps to maintain the integrity of DNA and prevent cancer . The DNA repair machinery is also involved in repairing DNA in the embryo and in the cells of the immune system . The DNA repair machinery is also responsible for repairing DNA in cancer cells . The DNA repair machinery is therefore an important target for cancer drugs . In the laboratory , XRCC4 and XLF have been shown to be essential for repairing DNA . Yet , it is not known whether XRCC4 and XLF work together to repair DNA . Here , Roy et al . show that XRCC4 and XLF work together to repair DNA . XRCC4 and XLF also help the other proteins to repair DNA . Disrupting the DNA repair machinery can lead to cancer . Therefore , understanding how the DNA repair machinery works is important for cancer treatment .
Cells can respond to DNA damage by halting their growth and repairing the damaged DNA . The protein p21 helps to control this process by blocking the action of enzymes called CDKs . When p21 is present , it binds to a protein called PCNA which is part of the DNA replication machinery . This prevents the DNA replication machinery from working properly and stops the cells from dividing . However , the role of p21 is not clear , as it can also prevent DNA damage from being repaired . To investigate this further , Vallerga et al . used a variety of techniques to investigate the role of p21 in the DNA replication process . Vallerga et al . found that the levels of p21 in cells are low in S phase of the cell cycle . However , p21 is still present in cells at this stage and regulates the activity of the DNA replication machinery . This is achieved by p21 binding to PCNA , which is required for the replication of DNA . The p21/PCNA interaction is essential for the proper execution of DNA replication during unperturbed cell cycles . This is the first time that p21 has been shown to have a positive role in the DNA replication process .
Parkinson’s disease ( PD ) is a neurodegenerative disorder that affects approximately one in 50 people in the UK . It is caused by the loss of brain cells that produce dopamine , a chemical that helps to control movement . The loss of dopamine-producing cells is caused by a genetic mutation in a protein called PINK1 , which is encoded by a gene on chromosome 6 . PINK1 is a type of protein called a kinase , which helps to turn other proteins on or off by adding a phosphate group to them . PINK1 is also involved in the removal of damaged mitochondria from the cells . Mitochondria are the powerhouses of cells , and if they become damaged , they can lead to cell death . In some cases , the loss of a single copy of the PINK1 gene can lead to PD , while in other cases , two copies of the gene may be affected . There are also many different mutations in the PINK1 gene that can cause the disease . However , little is known about how these mutations affect the structure of the protein , and how they lead to the loss of dopamine-producing cells . To address this question , Hollinshead et al . have now determined the structure of PINK1 from a related insect , the Tribolium castaneum . The structure of the Tribolium castaneum PINK1 protein shows that the protein is made of three parts: an N-terminal part that is similar to other kinases , a central part that contains three loops of protein , and a C-terminal part that is unique to PINK1 . The loops contain a ‘bowl-shaped’ structure that helps PINK1 to bind to the damaged mitochondria . Hollinshead et al . also found that a particular loop in the Tribolium castaneum PINK1 is important for the protein to bind to its substrate , and that mutations in this loop cause PINK1 to lose its ability to bind to the damaged mitochondria . This study provides new insights into the molecular mechanisms of PINK1 and may help to develop new treatments for PD .
Dengue fever is a common and potentially life-threatening viral infection that is caused by a group of viruses known as flaviviruses . It is estimated that over 100 million people become infected with dengue fever every year . Dengue fever can cause a range of symptoms including fever , headache , muscle and joint pain , and fatigue , and in severe cases , it can also lead to bleeding , shock and even death . Dengue fever is usually spread by the bite of an infected mosquito , but it can also be spread by blood transfusions , organ transplantation and from mother to fetus during pregnancy . There is currently no effective vaccine or treatment for dengue fever . However , it is known that the immune system plays a major role in determining how severe the disease becomes . A specific type of immune cell called mast cells is known to play a role in the pathology of dengue fever . Mast cells are present in many tissues throughout the body and are able to detect infections and trigger an immune response . When the body is infected with dengue virus , mast cells release many chemicals that promote blood vessel leakage , which can cause severe disease . It is currently not known how mast cells are activated by dengue virus . Here , St John et al . show that mast cells are activated by dengue virus infection in mice , and that this activation is dependent on the production of a number of chemicals that are released by mast cells . In addition , St John et al . show that blocking the activation of mast cells can reduce the severity of dengue fever in mice . These findings suggest that targeting mast cells may be an effective way to treat dengue fever in humans .
Alexander disease is a rare genetic disorder that affects the brain and spinal cord of children . It is caused by mutations in a protein called glial fibrillary acidic protein ( GFAP ) , which is found in astrocytes . These cells are the most abundant type of brain cell and are responsible for maintaining the structure and function of the brain . In Alexander disease , the mutations in GFAP cause the astrocytes to produce abnormally large amounts of the protein , which then accumulates in the brain and leads to the death of brain cells . Alexander disease is usually fatal , with most patients dying before the age of 20 . Alexander disease is a rare disease , and there is currently no treatment to prevent or treat it . Alexander disease is caused by mutations in GFAP that alter the normal function of the protein . However , the exact mechanisms by which these mutations cause the disease are not well understood . Now , Trogden et al . – including Trogden , Hagemann , Pekny , and Omary – have found that mutations in GFAP can lead to abnormal phosphorylation of the protein . This abnormal phosphorylation causes the astrocytes to produce more GFAP , which then accumulates in the brain and leads to the death of brain cells . Phosphorylation is a process in which a protein is modified by the addition of a phosphate group . Phosphorylation can alter the function of a protein , and Trogden et al . found that the phosphorylation of GFAP in Alexander disease astrocytes led to the protein becoming more unstable and accumulating in the cell . This accumulation of GFAP in the astrocytes was associated with the death of brain cells . The next step will be to identify the specific phosphorylation sites that are responsible for the accumulation of GFAP in Alexander disease and to develop a treatment that targets these phosphorylation sites to prevent the accumulation of GFAP and the death of brain cells . This will be important for developing a treatment for Alexander disease .
Mosquitoes are responsible for spreading many diseases that affect humans . Infections transmitted by mosquitoes cause over one million deaths every year . To control mosquito-borne diseases , it is essential to understand how mosquito populations are distributed , how they change over time , and how they interact with their environment . This is difficult because it is hard to collect data on mosquito populations . However , it is possible to collect data on mosquitoes using mobile phones . Mobile phones have microphones that can capture the wingbeats of mosquitoes . This could be used to identify the species of a mosquito , based on the frequency of its wingbeats . To make this technique work , it is necessary to know the frequency of wingbeats for each species of mosquito . This information can then be used to distinguish between different species of mosquito . Here , Kumar et al . used mobile phones to collect data on mosquitoes in the lab and in the field . They then developed an algorithm to classify the species of mosquito based on the frequency of its wingbeats . This algorithm can be used to analyze data collected by mobile phones to determine the species of mosquitoes in the field . The algorithm can also be used to identify the species of mosquitoes that are present in different locations . This could be used to identify the species of mosquitoes that are present in an area , and to track changes in the population over time . This could be used to predict the spread of diseases caused by mosquitoes , and to develop new strategies to control mosquito populations .
The immune system is highly organized , and the specificity of T cells for a particular antigen is determined by the type of T cell receptor ( or TCR ) that they have . However , the process by which T cells are selected and trained to recognize a specific antigen is not well understood . Now , Lo et al . have used a mouse model to show that T cells are selected by a single peptide called gp250 . Lo et al . engineered mice in which the only TCR that could recognize the peptide was the AND TCR , and found that the gp250 peptide also selected a large number of other T cells that could recognize the cytochrome c protein . The AND TCR is one of the most dominant TCRs that recognize cytochrome c , and the gp250 peptide was able to select many of these T cells . Lo et al . also found that the gp250-selected T cells had a specificity for cytochrome c that was similar to that of the original TCR . The results of this study suggest that the peptide used to select T cells may influence the specificity of the T cell response .
A person who loses a hand will still feel sensations in the missing hand , even though it has been removed . These sensations can be so vivid that the person can move each of the missing hand’s fingers as if they are still present . This phenomenon is known as a phantom limb . In 2015 , a team of researchers reported that the brain’s sensory map of the hand remained intact in people who had lost a hand decades earlier , even though the map would normally be reorganised to accommodate the loss of the hand . Now , a new study shows that this is indeed the case . The study used a technique called functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI ) to study the brains of two people who had lost their left hands and three healthy volunteers . The fMRI scans revealed that the missing hand maps were still present in the brains of the amputees , even though the maps had been reorganised in the brains of the healthy volunteers . This means that the missing hand maps were preserved despite the loss of the physical hand . The study also revealed that the maps were not driven by the intact hand , which may have been reorganised in the missing hand territory . This finding suggests that the missing hand maps are maintained by processing in the brain itself , rather than by inputs from the intact hand . The findings of this study may help to develop new technologies that can be used to control prosthetic limbs .
The cells in our bodies contain a large number of proteins that are produced from a set of instructions written in our DNA . These instructions are read by a cellular machine called the ribosome , which then builds the proteins from a sequence of letters in the DNA . The sequence of letters in the DNA is known as the genetic code , and it is the same for all living organisms . However , different cells in the body use different parts of the genetic code to make different proteins . This is because the genetic code contains regions that are skipped or spliced together in different ways , which leads to the production of different proteins . This process is known as alternative splicing . It is not clear why alternative splicing occurs in different cells , but it is thought to be important for the development and maintenance of different cells and tissues in the body . For example , the skin and the muscles in the body are made from different types of cells , and they have different functions . The skin is a barrier that protects the body from harmful substances , while the muscles allow the body to move . In order to make the skin and muscles , the cells in these tissues have to produce different proteins . The genes that provide the instructions for making these proteins are spliced differently in the skin and the muscles . The alternative splicing of the genes in the skin and muscles is controlled by a set of proteins known as splicing factors . These splicing factors bind to the genes and help to determine which parts of the genes are spliced together . The alternative splicing of genes is also regulated by other proteins known as splicing regulators . The splicing regulators bind to the genes and help to control the splicing of the genes . One of the proteins that helps to control the alternative splicing of genes is called Esrps . Mice lacking both copies of the Esrps gene develop abnormalities in the skin and the muscles . The skin becomes thinner and less able to form properly , while the muscles are not as strong as they should be . The skin and the muscles of the mice also have fewer hair follicles and fewer hairs . The skin also has less of the proteins that help to form the skin . The skin and muscles of the mice also have more of the proteins that help to repair the skin and muscles . The alternative splicing of genes in the skin and the muscles is also regulated by other splicing factors . The splicing regulators bind to the genes and help to control the splicing of the genes . In the skin and muscles of the mice , the alternative splicing of genes is controlled by the Esrps and other splicing regulators . The alternative splicing of genes in the skin and the muscles is also regulated by a global splicing program that is controlled by the Esrps and other splicing regulators . This global splicing program is essential for the development and maintenance of the skin and muscles , and it is also important for the development of other tissues in the body . Further research is needed to understand how the splicing factors control the splicing of genes in the skin and the muscles , and how the global splicing program works .
Obesity is a major health problem worldwide . One of the main reasons why obesity is so common is that it is hard to lose weight and keep it off . Too often , the body responds to weight loss by reducing the rate at which food is burned off . This makes it hard to maintain a healthy weight and increases the risk of developing many other diseases , including heart disease , type 2 diabetes , and some types of cancer . In addition , obesity can lead to a range of other health problems , including high blood pressure and sleep disorders . A new treatment for obesity is urgently needed . However , the development of effective treatments for obesity is challenging . The main reason is that it is hard to find drugs that can be used in humans that are safe and work well . This is because many of the treatments that are currently available are not effective , or they have unpleasant side effects . There is a need for a new treatment that can be used in humans , and that is safe and effective . In this study , we have found a new potential treatment for obesity . It is called liocalin-2 ( LCN2 ) . LCN2 is a protein that is found in mice and humans . It works by suppressing appetite , and it is present in the brain . We found that LCN2 can be given to mice and monkeys . This reduced the amount of food that they ate and helped them to lose weight . We also found that LCN2 binds to a receptor in the brain that is involved in controlling appetite . This suggests that LCN2 could be used as a treatment for obesity in humans . We also found that LCN2 is present in the blood of humans . The amount of LCN2 in the blood of humans increases after a meal , and this correlates with a decrease in hunger . This suggests that LCN2 could be used as a treatment for obesity in humans . Next , we will need to conduct further studies to confirm these findings . We will also need to test the safety and effectiveness of LCN2 in humans .
Mice use their whiskers to navigate through narrow spaces . To do this , the animals must be able to detect the walls of the space and use this information to guide their movements . Previous studies have shown that the whiskers of mice are able to detect objects and that the whisker sensory system can be mapped onto the brain . However , it is not clear how the brain processes information from the whiskers to guide movement . Now , Peron et al . have used a combination of imaging and electrophysiology to study how the brain processes information from the whiskers in mice . The experiments show that the activity of neurons in the whisker-sensing region of the brain is encoded in the strength of the whisker movements . This means that the brain can use the strength of whisker movements to determine the position of the walls of a space . The experiments also show that the brain can use information from the whiskers to guide mice through spaces without the walls . These findings provide new insights into how the brain processes information from the whiskers to guide movement .
The immune system can attack the body , causing autoimmune diseases . It can also attack the body in response to infections , causing allergies . There are many different ways that the immune system can respond to infections and it is important to understand how the immune system works so that new treatments can be developed . One approach is to use a protein called PD-1 to control the immune response . PD-1 can prevent the immune system from attacking the body , but it can also prevent it from attacking infections . However , the exact mechanisms of how PD-1 works are not well understood . In this study , the researchers used a mouse model of multiple sclerosis ( an autoimmune disease that affects the central nervous system ) to study how PD-1 works . The mice were given a protein that mimics an antigen that is associated with multiple sclerosis . This protein is called MBP . The mice that received the MBP protein were able to control their immune response and did not develop multiple sclerosis . In contrast , the mice that did not receive the MBP protein had a more aggressive immune response and developed multiple sclerosis . The researchers then studied the immune cells that had been exposed to the MBP protein . These cells were known as T cells , which are responsible for triggering the immune response . The researchers found that the T cells that were exposed to MBP had a high level of PD-1 , but the T cells that had not been exposed to MBP did not have high levels of PD-1 . The researchers also found that the T cells that had not been exposed to MBP were more active and were able to attack the body . The researchers then studied how PD-1 works in the immune system . The researchers found that PD-1 is associated with the demethylation of the Pdcd1 gene . This gene is responsible for the production of a protein that is essential for T cell activation . The researchers also found that T cells that had not been exposed to MBP had a low level of a protein called TET , which is important for demethylating the Pdcd1 gene . The researchers suggest that the next steps will be to further investigate how PD-1 works in the immune system and to develop new treatments for autoimmune diseases and allergies .
Forager knowledge and consistent use of wild cereals are still debated and poorly documented outside of the assumed centers of domestication in southwestern Asia . For some time , it has been claimed that in the Balkans some forms of intense gathering or incipient human management of local plant and animal species might have occurred before the full-blown transition to the Neolithic . However , the hypothesis of a systematic use of wild grasses of the Poaceae family during the Mesolithic remains to be verified in this region . In southeastern Europe , specifically in its Mediterranean zone , where one would expect a greater spectrum of small seeded grasses , fruits , and nuts , forager consumption of wild cereals is well documented only at Franchthi Cave in Greece . Here , wild barley ( Hordeum sp . ) appears in the archaeobotanical record starting in the Late Upper Paleolithic and throughout the Mesolithic , along with oat ( Avena sp . ) , pulses ( Lens sp . Mill . ) , bitter vetch ( Vicia ervilia ( L . ) Willd . ) , almond ( Prunus amygdalus Batscht ) , and terebinth ( Pistacia cf . lentiscus L . ) ( Hansen , 1991; Van Andel et al . , 1987 ) . Recent methodological advances in our ability to analyze microresidues in the form of microremains along with surface modifications and microresidues on ground stone tools ( henceforth GSTs ) have the potential to contribute to this old debate about Balkan and other prehistoric foragers’ familiarity with plant species . Moreover , far from seeing foragers as passive recipients of novelties arriving from Neolithic groups at the time of agricultural transitions , there is now growing evidence of the active role of hunter–gatherers in shaping their landscape ecologies , including plant management , and manipulation of ecosystems through niche constructing ( Lombardo et al . , 2020; Rowley-Conwy and Layton , 2011; Smith , 2012 ) . We examine these pertinent issues in hunter–gatherer research by studying dental remains and GSTs found at Mesolithic and Neolithic sites in the Danube Gorges area of the north-central Balkans between present-day Serbia and Romania .
Many genes are altered in cancer , which can lead to the formation of tumors . However , some of these genes are altered so frequently that they are thought to be unlikely to play a role in cancer . Ni et al . investigated 22 genes that had been previously identified as possible drivers of cancer . Ni et al . found that a gene called MAGI3 was frequently altered in breast cancer , and that this alteration caused the production of a shortened version of the MAGI3 protein . The shortened version of MAGI3 protein was able to transform human mammary epithelial cells into tumor cells . These findings suggest that MAGI3 may play a role in the development of breast cancer . Future research will focus on the role of MAGI3 in cancer .
Zebrafish larvae have an innate ability to locate and capture small moving prey objects , such as paramecia . These larvae can detect small prey with their eyes and then use their tail to swim toward the prey . The tail movements are triggered by a specific type of cell in the retina of the eye , known as a retinal ganglion cell . Previous studies have shown that retinal ganglion cells in zebrafish larvae respond to small moving objects , but the specific retinal cells that trigger this behavior were not known . Now , Semmelhack et al . have identified retinal ganglion cells that respond to small prey and mapped the neural circuits involved in the behavior . These results provide new insights into how animals detect and track small objects . In the future , the same approach could be used to identify the neural circuits involved in other behaviors .
Many social insects , such as ants and bees , live in colonies where different individuals have different jobs , such as nursing young or foraging for food . The different roles are often determined by the individual’s age and size , and are linked to the chemical signals that are exchanged between individuals in the colony . For example , ants can detect the chemical signals released by their queen and use these signals to determine whether they will develop into a worker or a queen . In social insects , these chemical signals are often transferred through a network of mouth-to-mouth exchanges of fluid between individuals . This fluid is called trophallaxis . In this study , LeBoeuf et al . analyzed the proteins present in the trophallaxis of carpenter ants . The results show that the proteins in the trophallaxis vary across different ants and between ants of different ages and roles . The proteins in the trophallaxis also help to regulate the ants’ metabolism and may even help to extend their lifespan . These findings suggest that the trophallaxis is a way for ants to communicate with each other and to coordinate their behavior . In the future , this work could help to develop new ways to control social insects’ behavior and to improve their health .
Structures of biological molecules are determined using X-ray crystallography , which involves the interaction of the molecules with X-rays . The resulting diffraction pattern is interpreted as a three-dimensional image of the molecule , and the resulting structure is then used to understand the molecular mechanisms that underlie biological processes . However , this process only captures the static structure of the molecule , and does not provide any information about the dynamic fluctuations that occur in the molecule . To address this limitation , Afonine et al . have developed a new method called ‘ensemble refinement’ that can be used to analyze the diffraction data of protein crystals . This method generates a collection of models of the protein molecule , each of which represents a different fluctuation of the molecule . These models can then be used to study the dynamics of the protein in detail . The new method has been tested using diffraction data collected from 20 different protein crystals , and the results show that the fluctuations in the protein molecules are much more complex than previously thought . The methods developed by Afonine et al . are likely to be useful for studying the dynamics of other biological molecules , such as DNA , RNA and proteins .
A birth defect called holoprosencephaly ( HPE ) occurs when the brain doesn’t properly develop and the two sides of the brain do not properly separate . This can lead to a range of problems including craniofacial defects , hearing loss , vision loss , and developmental delays . HPE is relatively common , occurring in one in 250 pregnancies . The causes of HPE are not well understood . Genetic mutations can contribute to HPE , but many cases also involve environmental factors such as alcohol exposure during pregnancy . However , the mechanisms whereby alcohol exposure causes HPE are still unknown . To investigate this , Hong and Krauss used mice to model HPE . The mice had a mutation in a gene called CDON , which normally helps to regulate the activity of a signaling pathway that controls the development of the brain and face . The mutant mice were then exposed to alcohol during pregnancy . The results showed that the CDON mutation and alcohol exposure together caused HPE in the mice . The experiments also showed that CDON interacted with genes that regulate the activity of a signaling pathway that is required for the development of the brain and face . This suggests that CDON may play a role in regulating the activity of this pathway in humans . The experiments also showed that alcohol exposure disrupted this signaling pathway in the mice . Together , the results suggest that CDON and alcohol exposure interact to cause HPE . The findings may help to explain how alcohol exposure during pregnancy can cause HPE in humans .
When we eat or drink , our body responds by increasing the amount of water and other substances in our blood . This is done by a group of cells in the brain called antidiuretic hormone ( or AVP ) neurons . However , it was previously unclear how the brain is able to detect water and food intake so quickly . In this study , Mandelblat-Cerf et al . used a technique called circuit mapping to identify the brain cells that connect to the AVP neurons and are responsible for the rapid response . This revealed two separate pathways that the brain uses to detect water and food intake . The first pathway involves the brain’s hypothalamus , which is a region that helps regulate our body’s water balance . The second pathway involves the arcuate nucleus , a brain region that helps regulate the amount of food we eat . The two pathways work in parallel to rapidly detect water and food intake , giving rise to a rapid response by the AVP neurons . This response is unique to the AVP neurons and helps our body to adjust our water balance . This is important because it helps us to avoid dehydration and overhydration . Future studies will be needed to understand the mechanisms underlying the AVP neurons’ rapid response .
Humans have left many traces of their activities in caves and on the ground , from footprints to handprints and the marks left by their tools . The ‘Grotta della Bàsura’ is a cave in Italy that contains traces of human activity dating back to the Upper Paleolithic period ( around 14 , 000 years ago ) . In this cave , several human footprints are preserved , along with the prints of other mammals . These tracks reveal that humans were exploring the cave and carrying out various activities there . The footprints are very well preserved and provide a detailed picture of the human activity in the cave . The footprints show that the cave was explored by a small group of people who were about 14 , 000 years old . They were young and old , and included children . The tracks show that the group of people was carrying out social activities in the cave . The footprints also reveal that the group was crawling through the cave , and that they were using the cave as a place for fun and leisure . The tracks provide a detailed picture of human activity in the cave during the Upper Paleolithic period . This period is very important for understanding human evolution and the origins of human culture .
Many animals learn to avoid things that might be dangerous to them . For example , if a human is bitten by a snake , they might learn to avoid snakes in the future . In some species of flies , including the fruit fly Drosophila , a larva learns to associate a smell with a mild electric shock . When the larva is exposed to the smell , it avoids the smell . However , it is not clear whether the larva learns to associate the smell with the electric shock , or whether it is simply avoiding the smell because it is dangerous . Now , Sawin et al . have developed a new technique to study this learning process in the fruit fly . The new technique allows Sawin et al . to observe the behavior of individual fruit fly larvae in real-time , and to measure how they change their behavior after learning . Sawin et al . found that the larvae learned to associate the smell with the electric shock by avoiding the smell . This is similar to the way that humans learn to avoid things that might be dangerous to them . Sawin et al . also found that the larvae learned to associate the smell with the electric shock in a single training session , and that the larvae retained this association even after they had stopped being exposed to the smell . This suggests that the larvae learned to associate the smell with the electric shock by forming a long-term memory . Further experiments by Sawin et al . showed that the larvae could form a long-term memory of the smell even when the training was not given in a single session . This suggests that the larvae learned to associate the smell with the electric shock by forming a long-term memory . Further experiments by Sawin et al . showed that the larvae could form a long-term memory of the smell even when the training was not given in a single session . This is the first time that long-term learning in the fruit fly has been demonstrated in the larva . Future experiments will explore whether the fruit fly can form long-term memories in other contexts .
Bats use a biological sonar system to find their way around in the dark . To do this , the bats emit a series of high-frequency sounds , known as echolocation calls , and then listen to the echoes that bounce back . By analyzing the echoes , the bats can determine the distance and shape of objects in their environment . However , the echoes do not contain enough information to reconstruct the 3D layout of the environment , making it difficult to recognize places . Here , we propose that bats use a different approach to place recognition . Instead of attempting to reconstruct the position , shape and identity of objects from the cochlear output , we propose the cochlear output to be used directly , extending the template based approach described by Wiegrebe (2008 ) . Under this hypothesis , bats are assumed to match the output of the cochlea to a set of stored templates , i . e . , classifying the echo signature as one of a set of memorized echo signatures each one recorded at a previously visited place . This approach obviates the need for complex reconstruction algorithms extracting 3D spatial information from the echo signals at the two ears . As it uses the sensory input directly , our approach to place recognition is analogous to the view-based place recognition that is thought to underlie visual navigation in insects .
Proteins are made in the cytoplasm of cells and then transported to the outside of the cell where they perform a wide variety of tasks . In the membranes of cells , proteins pass through small channels called pores . Each protein can only pass through one pore at a time , so the pores must be large enough to allow all of the proteins to pass through . The proteins are passed through the pores by a complex called the SecYEG complex . The SecYEG complex consists of two proteins , SecY and SecA , and is found in the membranes of all living cells . The SecYEG complex has been studied extensively , but the exact mechanism by which it works is still not well understood . Now , Zimmer et al . have used molecular dynamics simulations to reveal that the SecYEG complex works by two-way communication between the SecY channel and the SecA enzyme . The SecYEG complex is made of two proteins , SecY and SecA . SecY is a protein channel , and SecA is an enzyme that is responsible for transporting proteins through the channel . The SecY channel is covered with a barrier called the lateral gate , which opens and closes as SecA binds to SecY . Zimmer et al . have also used single-molecule fluorescence microscopy to show that the SecYEG complex is capable of transmitting information about the SecY channel to the SecA enzyme . This information is then used by SecA to regulate the rate at which it binds to SecY and passes proteins through the channel . This study provides new insights into how the SecYEG complex works , and could lead to new approaches to treat diseases caused by the SecYEG complex .
The timing of puberty is a critical event in an animal’s life . It is controlled by a group of genes that act in a specific order . For example , in the fruit fly , the fruitless gene is required for male-specific developmental events in the nervous system . In the nematode worm Caenorhabditis elegans , the heterochronic genes lin-28 , lin-41 and let-7 control the timing of sexual maturation in the nervous system . Lin-28 , lin-41 and let-7 work together to control the timing of puberty in mammals , and it is unclear how these genes work together to control puberty in the nervous system . Now , Aeschimann , Aeschimann et al . have identified the genes and signaling pathways that control the timing of sexual maturation in the nervous system of C . elegans . The results suggest that the timing of sexual maturation in the nervous system of C . elegans is controlled by a conserved regulatory pathway that also controls the timing of puberty in mammals . Further experiments will be required to understand how these genes work together to control the timing of sexual maturation in the nervous system .
The cells that contain the DNA that makes up an organism's genome are called germ cells . In animals , these cells are produced by the tissues that make up the reproductive organs . In humans and other animals , these cells are produced in the testes and ovaries . In plants , germ cells are produced in specialized cells called the sporophyte . Germ cells are produced in a process called meiosis , which involves the DNA in the germ cells being cut up and rearranged in a way that allows the cells to make four new genetically distinct copies of themselves . The cells that contain the genetic material of an organism are called somatic cells . In animals , the genetic material of somatic cells is not passed on to the next generation . In contrast , the genetic material of germ cells is passed on to the next generation . This means that the genetic material of animals is concentrated in a relatively small number of cells . This is thought to be a fundamental feature of animal biology . Despite this , the genetic material of germ cells is not well understood . One protein that is known to be important in the development of germ cells is called GCNA . This protein is also expressed in other cells that carry genetic material , including cells in the sporophyte of plants . The antigens that identify GCNA are not well understood , and the role of GCNA is also not well understood . Now , Hu , Boucher et al . have discovered that the antigen that identifies GCNA is also the protein that carries the genetic material of germ cells in mice . The mice used in this study were genetically modified to delete a gene that encodes GCNA . This resulted in a loss of germ cells in the mice . These findings suggest that the antigen that identifies GCNA is important for the development of germ cells in animals .
When a female mouse mates , sperm cells are released from the male’s penis into the vagina . From there , they travel to the uterus , where they can fertilize an egg cell . The uterus is made up of two main layers: the outer layer is called the endometrium , and the inner layer is called the lining of the uterus ( or epithelium ) . The epithelium is made up of a layer of cells that line the inside of the uterus , and it is here that fertilization takes place . The endometrium then expands and develops into a tissue called the placenta , which provides nutrients and oxygen to the developing embryo . The placenta then implants itself in the lining of the uterus , and the embryo continues to grow and develop in the womb . The female reproductive tract is made up of the vagina , uterus , cervix , fallopian tubes and oviduct . The oviduct is the tube through which the sperm cells pass during fertilization . Here , the sperm cells are released from the uterus and travel to the oviduct . The oviduct is lined with a layer of epithelial cells that produce hormones , such as estrogen , and help to protect the developing embryo from infection . Mice lacking epithelial ERα in the oviduct are infertile and fail to develop healthy embryos . The experiments show that the oviduct epithelial cells produce more proteases and less protease inhibitors than in normal mice . The oviducts of these mice also contain more proteases and fewer protease inhibitors than normal . The experiments also show that the oviducts of these mice produce more proteases than normal after fertilization . This means that the oviducts of these mice are more likely to produce proteases that can damage the embryo . The experiments also show that the oviducts of these mice are more likely to produce proteases that can damage the embryo . This suggests that the oviducts of these mice are more likely to be damaged by proteases . This could explain why the embryos fail to develop in these mice . The findings suggest that the oviduct epithelial cells play an important role in regulating the oviduct environment to allow fertilization and embryo development .
The granulosa cells that line the ovary are responsible for producing eggs , as well as providing the hormone estrogen . These cells are highly specialized and undergo a complex process of cell division to form a mature egg . In this process , granulosa cells first divide to form a group of cells called ‘preantral’ cells . These preantral cells then undergo a process called folliculogenesis , which involves the development of the follicle in which the egg will eventually be produced . In this process , the granulosa cells undergo a series of changes that allow them to produce and release the estrogen hormone . This process is coordinated by a group of proteins known as nuclear receptors , which bind to specific DNA sequences to regulate the expression of genes . One of the proteins that is involved in this process is called FOXL2 . FOXL2 is a transcription factor , which means that it controls the activity of genes by binding to specific DNA sequences . FOXL2 is known to play a key role in the regulation of the folliculogenesis process , but little is known about its role in the production of estrogen . To better understand how FOXL2 controls the production of estrogen , D’Souza et al . used a cell culture system to study the effects of FOXL2 on the expression of genes involved in estrogen production . The experiments showed that FOXL2 is required for the production of the enzyme aromatase , which is the rate-limiting enzyme involved in the production of estrogen . The experiments also showed that FOXL2 is required for the expression of the estrogen receptors Esr2 and Esr1 . These findings suggest that FOXL2 acts as a master regulator of estrogen signaling in the ovary . Further experiments showed that FOXL2 is also required for the expression of a gene called Cyp19a1 , which is responsible for producing the enzyme aromatase . This work highlights the importance of FOXL2 in the regulation of estrogen signaling and suggests that FOXL2 is a key factor in the development of the ovary .
Pheromones are chemical signals that allow animals to communicate with each other . Males and females of many species use these signals to find a mate and to identify the sex of potential partners . Many animals use the vomeronasal system , a network of sensory cells that are found in the nose , to detect pheromones . However , the vomeronasal system of mammals is not fully understood , and the pheromones that trigger the behaviors are not known . Ma et al . have now identified a group of receptors that respond to pheromones in the vomeronasal system of mice . The receptors were found in a group of sensory cells in the vomeronasal system that were sensitive to a specific type of pheromone called estrogen . These receptors are found in the vomeronasal system of mice of both sexes and in the olfactory system of mice . The estrogen pheromones were found in the urine of females and in the urine of males . When mice were exposed to the estrogen pheromones , they became more likely to mate with females . This suggests that the pheromones are detected by the vomeronasal system , which then sends signals to the brain to trigger the mating behavior . This process may help to ensure that males mate with the female of their own species .
Transcription factors are proteins that control how cells use their genetic information to make proteins . Transcription factors bind to specific sequences in the DNA , and this binding triggers the production of the protein . The DNA sequences that a transcription factor binds to are called the binding site . In many cases , transcription factors can bind to multiple different DNA sequences . This is known as multiple specificity . However , it is not clear how transcription factors are able to bind to two different sequences with similar strengths . Now , Yin et al . have solved the structures of two transcription factors , HOXB13 and CDX2 , bound to their two optimal DNA sequences . The structures revealed that the two optimal sequences are bound due to different thermodynamic properties . One of the sequences is bound primarily due to an optimal enthalpy contribution , whereas the other is bound primarily due to an optimal entropy contribution . These results reveal the molecular basis of the multiple specificity phenomenon , and show that it is a common feature of transcription factors . They also suggest that multiple specificity may be a general feature of many macromolecular interactions .
Bacteria use flagella to move and to infect other cells . These flagella are long , thin structures that are made up of a series of tiny protein filaments that rotate around a central axle . The flagella are anchored to the cell’s body by a protein called FliD . In bacteria such as Salmonella and Campylobacter , FliD is a small protein that attaches to the end of the flagella . In other bacteria , such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa , FliD is a larger protein that attaches to the end of the flagella and also helps to control the formation of the flagella . However , it is not known how FliD attaches to the end of the flagella and how it helps to control the formation of the flagella . Now , Zhang et al . have used a technique called X-ray crystallography to reveal the structure of FliD from Pseudomonas aeruginosa . This has allowed the researchers to identify the regions of the protein that control FliD’s ability to bind to the flagella . The experiments also revealed that the structure of FliD is flexible , which suggests that the protein may be able to change its shape in order to attach to the flagella . The researchers also found that the protein’s structure is different from that of other flagella proteins , which suggests that FliD may be involved in the formation of flagella from the beginning of the flagella . The next step is to study how FliD works in other bacteria .
