The cerebellum is a part of the brain that helps us to learn how to perform movements . For example , when we are learning how to type on a computer , we often practice the movement of our fingers and hands in sequence . The cerebellum helps us to learn how to type by making our fingers and hands perform the movements in the correct sequence . To do this , the cerebellum uses information about the movements of our fingers and hands to help us to learn the correct timing of each movement . For example , when we first learn to type the letter “a” , the cerebellum might help us to learn the correct timing of the next movement , which is to type the letter “b” . In this way , the cerebellum helps us to learn how to perform a sequence of movements . In the present study , the researchers trained rabbits to blink their left eye . The rabbits learned to blink their eye when they were given a stimulus to the left eye . The researchers then asked the rabbits to blink their eye again . They found that the rabbits were able to learn to blink their eye again in response to the same stimulus . This means that the cerebellum was able to learn how to perform the movement sequence of blinking their eye using the feedback signals it received from the first movement . The results of this study suggest that the cerebellum can use internal feedback signals from one movement to help us learn the correct timing of the next movement in a sequence . This is similar to how the cerebellum helps us to learn how to perform a sequence of movements . The results of this study also suggest that the cerebellum could help guide sequences of cortical activity during cognitive tasks .
Cells are the basic units of life, and their function is to grow and multiply. This is achieved by a complex network of interactions between different molecules that work together to produce energy and produce the raw materials needed for growth. One of the key players in this network is a protein called mTOR. mTOR is a master regulator of cell growth and is also involved in many diseases, including cancer. mTOR is a protein complex that contains two subunits, mTORC1 and mTORC2. mTORC1 is responsible for sensing the energy status of the cell and mTORC2 is responsible for sensing the presence of growth factors. The mTORC2 complex is also known as the rapamycin-insensitive complex, because it is not affected by a drug called rapamycin that can stop the growth of cells. However, the structure of mTORC2 has not been determined until now. In this study, researchers used a technique called cryo-electron microscopy to capture the structure of mTORC2 in human cells. They found that the complex is made up of two subunits, mTOR and Lst8, and contains four accessory proteins, Rictor, SIN1, Protor-1 and Rictor-1. The mTOR subunit is surrounded by the Lst8 protein, while the Rictor and SIN1 proteins are found on opposite sides of the complex. The accessory proteins form a tower-like structure that surrounds the mTOR subunit. The structure of mTORC2 could help scientists to develop new drugs that target this complex and prevent the growth of cancer cells.
The human brain contains a network of neurons that can process different types of information, such as numbers or shapes. However , it is not clear how these neurons can be reused to process different types of information, such as numbers and shapes. A theory known as cortical recycling suggests that the same neurons can be reused to represent different things, but it is not clear if this is true. To investigate this idea, a team of scientists asked volunteers to look at a series of dots moving on a screen and then compare the number of dots with the direction in which they were moving. The results showed that the same neurons can be used to process both space and numbers, which suggests that cortical recycling is possible. This finding could help us to better understand how the brain processes information and may lead to new functionalities without sacrificing existing ones.
The stem cells in the developing embryo divide and grow to form many different types of cells . This process is controlled by proteins called transcription factors , which bind to specific DNA sequences to turn on or off the genes involved in cell growth . The protein Musashi-1 is one of the transcription factors that control the growth of stem cells . It is also a protein that is involved in cancer , and it can promote the growth of cancer cells . This means that Musashi-1 is a key factor in the development of many types of cancer . However , it is not clear how it controls cell growth . Musashi-1 is a protein that binds to RNA , which is the molecule that carries genetic information in the cell . Musashi-1 binds to RNA by using two binding sites called RNA recognition motifs ( RRMs ) . The binding of Musashi-1 to RNA is essential for it to regulate the growth of stem cells . A compound called oleic acid can inhibit Musashi-1 binding to RNA . This inhibition is specific to oleic acid , and it does not affect other types of fatty acids . The study shows that oleic acid can inhibit the growth of stem cells , and that it also regulates a protein called stearoyl-CoA desaturase ( SCD ) . SCD is an enzyme that helps to make fatty acids . Musashi-1 binds to SCD RNA , and it is thought that this binding may help to regulate the growth of stem cells . Musashi-1 may also help to regulate the growth of cancer cells . The study suggests that the foods we eat can affect our risk of developing cancer . This is because the foods we eat contain fatty acids , which can inhibit Musashi-1 binding to RNA and therefore prevent the growth of cancer cells .
When neurons in the brain communicate with each other , they release chemical messengers called neurotransmitters . These chemical messengers are stored in small bubbles called vesicles . When the neuron is stimulated , the vesicles release the neurotransmitters into the space between the neurons . The vesicles then return to the neuron , and this process is called replenishment . If the neuron is not stimulated , the vesicles do not release neurotransmitters . The vesicles are replenished by a protein called synaptotagmin 7 . This protein is found in all animals , and is thought to be important for learning and memory . The role of synaptotagmin 7 in replenishing vesicles is not clear . In this study , Liu et al . used a mouse model to study the role of synaptotagmin 7 in replenishing vesicles . The experiments showed that synaptotagmin 7 is required for replenishment in mice . The experiments also revealed that synaptotagmin 7 interacts with a protein called calcium-dependent protein kinase M ( CaM ) , which is also important for replenishment . The findings of Liu et al . suggest that synaptotagmin 7 acts as a calcium sensor that regulates the replenishment of vesicles . These findings could help to explain how brain disorders such as Alzheimer’s disease are caused and how they can be treated .
Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and acute stress disorder are mental disorders that develop after a traumatic or stressful event . PTSD and acute stress disorder are common , and can be debilitating . Unfortunately , current treatments for these disorders are limited . Gamble-George et al . have now investigated whether a drug called LM-4131 could be an effective treatment for PTSD and acute stress disorder . Gamble-George et al . tested the effects of LM-4131 on mice that had been subjected to stress . The experiments showed that LM-4131 reduced the mice’s anxiety-like behavior . This effect was also seen in a separate test that assessed the mice’s fear response to a stressful situation . Gamble-George et al . also examined the effects of LM-4131 on the brain’s amygdala , which is responsible for processing emotions . The experiments showed that LM-4131 reduced the activity of the amygdala in mice that had been subjected to stress . These findings suggest that LM-4131 may be a useful treatment for PTSD and acute stress disorder . However , more research is needed to confirm these findings and to understand how LM-4131 works in the brain .
Cells are surrounded by a membrane that protects them from their surroundings and regulates how the cell interacts with its environment . Membrane proteins are critical for cellular function and are underrepresented in biological research compared to water-soluble proteins . These proteins are embedded in the membrane and can interact with other molecules in the environment . To study membrane proteins , researchers use detergents to extract them from the membrane . However , detergents can alter the structure of the protein and disrupt its interactions with other molecules . To overcome this challenge , researchers have developed methods to stabilize membrane proteins using amphipathic molecules that are soluble in water . One such method involves using a nanodisc , a small scaffold made of amphipathic molecules that encases the membrane protein . However , nanodiscs have limitations , such as the need to use a detergent to extract the protein and the difficulty of using them to study membrane proteins in their natural environment . Now , Corin et al . have developed a new method to stabilize membrane proteins without using a detergent . This method , called the peptidisc , is based on a protein called NSPr that can wrap around a membrane protein and form a scaffold that is soluble in water . The peptidisc is made by combining the NSPr with a membrane protein . This allows the membrane protein to be stabilized and studied without the need for a detergent . Corin et al . tested the peptidisc on several membrane proteins and found that it worked well on proteins of different sizes and shapes . The peptidisc also allowed the proteins to retain their interactions with other molecules . The peptidisc is therefore a promising method for studying membrane proteins in their natural environment .
Every living thing needs DNA to make proteins that are necessary for a cell to perform different tasks. The instructions for making proteins are stored in the DNA of an organism and then copied into a molecule called RNA. RNA then carries the instructions to a cell’s factories, where the proteins are made. However , errors can occur during the process of copying the DNA into RNA. This can lead to proteins that are not made correctly . In a healthy cell , the factories will detect and remove any incorrect proteins before they are produced . In a diseased cell , the incorrect proteins can accumulate and cause problems . The DNA of some bacteria contains a mutation that can cause the factories to produce proteins that are not properly made . This mutation can be detected by comparing the DNA and RNA of a cell . In a healthy cell , the DNA and RNA will match perfectly . In a diseased cell , the DNA and RNA may not match perfectly . The DNA and RNA of four types of bacteria were compared and thousands of errors were found . The errors were found mainly in the middle of the RNA molecule . This suggests that the cells may be less fit than previously thought . Further analysis revealed that the mutations were caused by the factories not being able to distinguish between the correct and incorrect nucleotides when copying the DNA . These findings may help researchers to better understand how the factories work and how to make them more accurate .
In many cases , the loss of a hand can have a devastating impact on an individual's daily life . For example , it may make it difficult to tie their shoelaces or pick up objects . But how do individuals adapt to losing a hand , and what role does the brain play in this adaptation ? To answer these questions , Makin et al . studied 18 individuals who were born without a hand and 18 individuals who had lost their hand . All of the participants had to adapt to their loss of a hand in a way that allowed them to live independently . Some of the individuals used their residual limb , while others used their intact hand . To study the brain's response to these different adaptations , Makin et al . used functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI ) to measure brain activity in the deprived cortex . The results showed that the individuals who used their residual limb more had more brain activity in the area of the cortex that controls the missing hand . In contrast , the individuals who used their intact hand more had more brain activity in the area of the cortex that controls the intact hand . The findings of Makin et al . suggest that the brain can change in response to the loss of a hand , and that these changes may be influenced by the way in which individuals adapt to their loss . The findings may help to develop new rehabilitation techniques that can improve the lives of individuals who have lost a hand .
The transition from water to land is a crucial event in the evolution of vertebrates . This is because it led to the development of red blood cells in the bone marrow , which is the site in which the blood cells are produced in vertebrates . Yet , there is still a lot that is not known about how this transition occurred . Estefa et al . have investigated the bones of early tetrapods – the group of vertebrates that includes amphibians , birds , reptiles and mammals – to find out more about this transition . The fossilised bones were from fish and early land animals that lived between 360 million and 300 million years ago . Estefa et al . found that the bones of these early tetrapods lacked a cavity where the bone marrow could be found . This suggests that the bone marrow could not have played a role in the production of red blood cells in these early vertebrates . Instead , the development of red blood cells occurred after the transition from water to land . The study has shed light on the evolution of red blood cells in vertebrates . Estefa et al . also found that the bones of some early tetrapods had a structure similar to the bones of amphibians . This suggests that the evolution of red blood cells in bone marrow is not unique to vertebrates , but may have occurred in other animals too .
Alcohol use disorder is a major health problem worldwide , but it is not clear why some people are more likely to develop it than others . Previous studies have shown that people with alcohol use disorder are more likely to be exposed to stressful situations . This could be because alcohol use can reduce the ability to cope with stress . However , it is not clear how this happens . Hwa et al . now show that mice that are exposed to stressful situations are more likely to develop alcohol use disorder . The animals were given a drinking bottle that contained alcohol , and they could drink whenever they wanted to . This caused the mice to develop an addiction to alcohol . When the mice were exposed to a stressful situation , they were more likely to drink more alcohol . Hwa et al . also found that a stress-induced response in the brain that is linked to the production of a chemical called dynorphin was involved in the addiction . This suggests that reducing the activity of dynorphin in the brain could help to prevent alcohol use disorder . Further work is needed to understand the mechanisms that underlie this relationship between alcohol use and stress .
Answer: eEF1A1 helps to select the amino acids that match the sequence of the messenger RNA template.
Auxins are plant hormones that help regulate plant growth . Auxins help plants grow new stems and leaves and can trigger the formation of flowers . The master regulator of auxin is a protein called MONOPTEROS . Auxins help MONOPTEROS switch on genes involved in flower formation . The mechanism behind this process is not well understood . Wu et al . have now identified a new mechanism for auxin-controlled flower formation . The findings show that MONOPTEROS helps flower formation by recruiting chromatin remodeling complexes to the genes that regulate flower formation . These complexes are made up of proteins called SWI/SNF . Auxins help recruit these proteins to the genes that regulate flower formation . The study also shows that the genes that are involved in flower formation are switched on by recruiting the chromatin remodeling complexes . This means that the chromatin remodeling complexes are required for flower formation . The study also reveals that the SWI/SNF proteins can be recruited by auxins to the genes that regulate flower formation in other parts of the plant . This means that the mechanism identified by Wu et al . may be important for other processes that involve flower formation .
The bone marrow is a spongy tissue inside the bones where stem cells are found. These stem cells are like the ‘mother cells’ that give rise to all the other types of cells in the body, including red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. The bone marrow is essential for creating new blood cells, and if it fails to produce enough healthy blood cells, it can lead to a condition called myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). MDS is a type of blood cancer that occurs when blood cells fail to develop normally. People with MDS have a high risk of developing acute myeloid leukemia, a type of blood cancer that can be fatal. MDS is relatively common in older adults and can be caused by genetic mutations. The specific section of chromosome 7 that is frequently lost in MDS patients is known as the 7q37 locus. The 7q37 locus contains several genes that are involved in the development of blood cells, and losing these genes can disrupt the normal development of blood cells. Wong et al . used mice to study how losing a section of chromosome 7 in the 7q37 locus affects the development of blood cells. The mice were engineered to lose a section of chromosome 7 in a specific region called 5A3, which is near the 7q37 locus. The mice had many abnormalities, including not producing enough immune cells and problems with expressing genes. The abnormalities worsened over time, and the mice had an increased risk of developing acute myeloid leukemia. These results provide evidence that a missing section of chromosome 7 is directly linked to the development of MDS.
Answer: The purpose of studying the somatosensory system is to understand how the nervous system processes sensory information.
All living organisms contain DNA , which is packaged into thread-like structures called chromosomes . Chromosomes are made up of genetic material , which carries the instructions for making proteins and other molecules that are needed for the body to function . When a cell divides , it makes a copy of each chromosome . The genetic material is then divided between the two daughter cells . In sexually reproducing organisms , the genetic material is divided between two sperm cells and two egg cells . Each sperm cell and egg cell contains a complete set of chromosomes , which are half the number of chromosomes found in the parent cell . The genetic material is passed from one generation to the next through the sperm and egg cells . The number of chromosomes is important because each cell needs the right number of chromosomes to function properly . Too many or too few chromosomes can cause problems for the cell and the organism . The number of chromosomes is determined by a process called meiosis , which happens in the reproductive cells of sexually reproducing organisms . During meiosis , the chromosomes divide into two sperm cells and two egg cells . Each sperm cell contains half the number of chromosomes that the parent cell did , while each egg cell contains the full number of chromosomes . This is why the egg cells have twice the number of chromosomes as the sperm cells . The chromosomes divide into two sets of chromosomes , one set being the same as the parent cell and the other set being different . This ensures that the two sets of chromosomes are not identical and that the new sperm cells and egg cells are different . Chromosomes are divided by a process called recombination . Recombination involves the exchange of genetic material between two chromosomes . This exchange of genetic material helps to prevent identical sets of chromosomes from being passed on to the next generation . Recombination is important in sexually reproducing organisms because it ensures that the offspring have a mix of genetic material from both parents .
Each cell contains a complete set of instructions for making proteins , known as DNA , which is passed down to each new cell as it divides . To ensure that these instructions are correctly followed , the DNA must be copied and passed on to the new cell . This process is called cell division . In humans , it takes around 24 hours for a cell to divide into two daughter cells . However , some diseases , such as cancer , are caused by errors in the process of cell division . Understanding how cell division works is therefore crucial to understanding these diseases . The process of cell division involves a series of complex steps , including the production of new proteins , the destruction of old proteins , and the breaking down of DNA . The final step in cell division is called mitotic exit , when the new cells separate from each other and start to function independently . Scientists have long been interested in understanding how the process of mitotic exit works , but the details of this process are still not fully understood . Now , Holder et al . have used a technique called mass spectrometry to study the process of mitotic exit in human cells . This technique allowed Holder et al . to measure the levels of over 4800 proteins and over 18 , 000 phosphorylation sites at regular intervals during cell division . Holder et al . found that the destruction of a protein called cyclin B was the trigger for the process of mitotic exit . This protein is essential for the production of new proteins , and its destruction is what starts the process of cell division . However , Holder et al . also found that many other proteins are destroyed after the process of mitotic exit has started . This process is controlled by enzymes called phosphatases , which remove phosphate groups from the proteins . The phosphatases can be activated by a protein called CDK1 , which is also destroyed during mitotic exit . Holder et al . found that the timing of these events is determined by the specific phosphate groups that are removed . For example , phosphate groups are removed more quickly from proteins that have acidic amino acids than from proteins that have basic amino acids . The next step is to understand how these changes in the levels of phosphate groups control the events of mitotic exit . This knowledge could help develop new treatments for diseases that are caused by errors in the process of cell division .
Stress is known to trigger depression . However , it is not clear how stress affects the brain . Shrestha et al . found that a gene called Wfs1 is involved in how the brain responds to stress . The Wfs1 gene is present in a group of cells in the prefrontal cortex of the brain , which is involved in regulating emotions and the brain's response to stress . These cells are also involved in the development of depression . When Shrestha et al . removed the Wfs1 gene from these cells in mice , the mice became more sensitive to stress and showed symptoms of depression . This suggests that Wfs1 plays a role in the brain's response to stress and may be an important target for the development of new drugs to treat depression .
Proteins are the building blocks of cells and play a wide variety of roles in the cell. For example, they help to build the cell’s skeleton, and they also help to make other proteins . Proteins can be modified in a number of ways, including by adding or removing amino acids . Some proteins can also bind to other proteins , or to nucleic acids . Proteins can also be shaped in different ways , depending on the conditions in which they are found . This can affect how they work . For example , some proteins can break down a molecule called ATP , which is used to make energy in the cell . In this study , the researchers looked at a protein called Hsp90 , which is important for the cell’s metabolism . The researchers found that Hsp90 is flexible , and that this flexibility helps it to break down ATP . However , when Hsp90 is in a crowded cellular environment , its flexibility is reduced , and it is less able to break down ATP . This suggests that proteins must be flexible to perform their jobs efficiently . This is an important finding because many diseases are caused by defects in proteins . Understanding how proteins work could help to develop new treatments for these diseases .
Cells in the body need to grow in a coordinated way to form tissues and organs . This requires the formation of a single front , which is established by a group of proteins called the Cdc42 family . However , it is not clear how cells can guarantee that only one front is formed . In this study , Wu et al . show that a protein called Cdc42 is essential for establishing the front in yeast . In the absence of Cdc42 , yeast cells form multiple buds . Wu et al . show that yeast cells can guarantee the uniqueness of the front by slowing down the exchange of Cdc42 and other proteins between the front and the rest of the cell . This allows the cells to keep competing for the proteins that are needed to form the front . The findings of Wu et al . provide new insights into how cells coordinate their growth and how the front is established in the body .
DNA molecules are the molecular blueprints of life and carry all the genetic information required for the development and survival of living organisms . When cells divide , the DNA is replicated and each new cell receives a complete copy of the genetic material . DNA molecules are composed of two strands of nucleotides that are held together by hydrogen bonds . If the DNA molecules are damaged , the cells will not be able to replicate and will eventually die . DNA repair proteins can fix some of the damage , but if the damage is too severe , the cell will need to use a backup copy of the genetic material to replace the damaged DNA . DNA repair proteins can also repair DNA that is damaged by external factors such as radiation and chemicals . One of the most important DNA repair proteins is called RecA . RecA is responsible for repairing double-strand breaks in DNA . When a double-strand break occurs , RecA binds to the damaged DNA strands and finds a matching sequence in another DNA strand . The RecA filament then slides along the damaged DNA strand to find the matching sequence . Once the RecA filament finds the matching sequence , it swaps the damaged DNA strand with the undamaged DNA strand . RecA is also important for the repair of DNA damage caused by radiation and chemicals . Mutations in the RecA gene can cause cancer and premature death . The RecA protein can be found in bacteria , fungi , plants , and animals . RecA is a very large protein complex , consisting of many subunits . It is not clear how the RecA filament can find the matching sequence in DNA . Now , Roy et al . have used a technique called single-molecule fluorescence microscopy to study the RecA filament . This allowed them to observe the RecA filament as it interacted with DNA . The experiments showed that the RecA filament can move along the DNA strand . The RecA filament can also recognize the matching sequence in the DNA and swap the DNA strands . This discovery changes our understanding of how RecA works and could help to develop new strategies for repairing DNA damage .
Antiterminator proteins are essential for viruses to replicate their genetic material . They bind to the viral RNA genome and prevent the termination of gene transcription . M2-1 is a protein from the human metapneumovirus ( HMPV ) that is a negative-strand , non-segmented ssRNA virus . The M2-1 protein is present in the viral genome and is essential for viral replication . However , the mechanism by which M2-1 prevents premature termination of gene transcription is unknown . M2-1 is a basic protein that contains a zinc finger and a core domain . The M2-1 zinc finger recognizes the Adenosine monophosphate ( AMP ) molecule , while the core domain binds to the poly-adenosine tract of the viral RNA . M2-1 is a modular protein that can exist in an open or closed state . In the open state , the zinc finger is free to bind to RNA , while the core domain is exposed to the solvent . In the closed state , the core domain binds to the AMP molecule , while the zinc finger is flipped out of the protein . In the presence of the RNA , M2-1 adopts a closed conformation , which is coupled with concentration-dependent aggregation . Our findings provide a basis for the development of new antiviral treatments .
Lysosomes are membrane-bound compartments that break down proteins and other unnecessary materials . Inside lysosomes , proteins called enzymes break down the waste into smaller pieces . When the lysosomes are not working properly , they can become overfilled with proteins and other waste materials , which can cause a range of diseases . Lysosomes are particularly rich in chloride ions , the most abundant ion in the body . It is not clear why lysosomes are so chloride-rich and whether this has any role in their function . Chakraborty et al . used a DNA-based fluorescent reporter called Clensor to measure chloride in lysosomes in a species of roundworm called Caenorhabditis elegans . The DNA-based reporter was able to measure chloride levels in lysosomes in vivo . Chakraborty et al . then showed that lysosomes in nematode models of lysosomal storage disorders showed a dramatic decrease in chloride concentrations . This correlated with a loss of lysosome degradation capacity . The DNA-based reporter also revealed that chloride levels were higher in lysosomes of mammalian cells than in the surrounding cytosol . This suggests that lysosomes are particularly rich in chloride and that it may play a role in the lysosome’s function .
Gaze following is a key component of social behavior and learning in humans and monkeys . It involves tracking the direction of another person's gaze and focusing on the same object as them . The monkey brain contains several areas that are specialized for processing information about the orientation of a face . Here , the authors trained two rhesus monkeys to use head gaze to locate specific targets . To see if this involved a specific brain area , they used functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI ) to measure the activity of different brain regions . The results showed that the activity of a particular patch of brain tissue in the superior temporal sulcus was highly specific to gaze following . The authors suggest that this area may be the source of the geometrical calculations needed to establish a shared frame of reference between two interacting agents . This may help us understand social disorders .
Amblyopia is a condition where one eye does not develop properly during childhood . It is usually caused by the eye being closed for too long , which can result in a lack of visual input for that eye . This can lead to vision problems in the affected eye . However , amblyopia is not something that can be treated in adults . The vision in the affected eye usually does not recover completely even after the eye is reopened . Kaneko and Stryker have now shown that this may not be the case . The researchers used mice to test how well the visual system of the brain can recover from amblyopia . The mice had one eye closed during childhood and were then allowed to see normally with the other eye . The mice were then placed in a running wheel while being shown a visual stimulus . The stimulus caused the visual cortex of the brain to respond more strongly to the eye that had been closed . This recovery of vision was more pronounced when the visual stimulus was presented during running . The results suggest that the adult visual system may be more malleable than previously thought . This could lead to new treatments for amblyopia .
Leaf-cutting ants are highly efficient herbivores that chew leaves to form a mixture of plant fragments that they then use as food . The ants live in close association with fungi that help them digest these plant fragments . This symbiotic relationship is thought to have evolved over millions of years . The fungi produce enzymes that break down plant material , and the ants use these enzymes to break down the plant fragments into nutrients . However , the ants also produce enzymes that are not found in fungi . These ants-only enzymes are thought to be used to break down plant material in the ants’ own digestive system . However , the ants also produce enzymes that are found in the fungi , and these enzymes can break down plant material in a different way . This raises questions about how the ants and fungi work together to break down plant material . Boomsma et al . have now shown that the ants produce enzymes that can trigger a chemical reaction called the Fenton reaction . This reaction involves the production of hydroxyl radicals that can break down plant material . Boomsma et al . have also shown that the ants produce an enzyme that can reduce iron to a form that can trigger the Fenton reaction . This enzyme is produced in the ants’ digestive system , and it is not found in the fungi . This suggests that the ants and fungi work together to break down plant material . The ants produce the enzyme that can trigger the Fenton reaction , while the fungi produce the enzymes that can break down plant material . The ants also produce enzymes that can reduce iron , which is necessary for the Fenton reaction . The ants and fungi then use these enzymes to break down plant material in a coordinated manner . This is the first example of a symbiotic relationship in which two species use different enzymes to break down plant material . The findings of this study could be used to improve technologies for breaking down organic compounds .
The protein P2A is an enzyme that inhibits the activity of another enzyme called PP2A . PP2A is a phosphatase that dephosphorylates proteins that are important in many cellular processes . P2A is inhibited by a protein called Greatwall , which phosphorylates its inhibitors ARPP19 and ENSA . In cells , this results in a decrease in the activity of PP2A , leading to increased cell growth and transformation . Vera et al . studied the role of Greatwall in breast and colon cancer cells . They found that Greatwall overexpression increased the activity of a protein called AKT , which is also involved in cell growth and transformation . Overexpression of Greatwall also increased the activity of PP2A in the cells . AKT is a key player in many cellular pathways , and its activation is known to promote cell growth and transformation . Vera et al . showed that the increase in AKT activity was due to the inhibition of PHLPP , a phosphatase that dephosphorylates AKT . PHLPP is often degraded by a process called ubiquitination , which is also regulated by Greatwall . Therefore , the results suggest that Greatwall overexpression can increase the activity of AKT , leading to increased cell growth and transformation . This study shows that Greatwall is an important factor in cell transformation and may be a potential therapeutic target for cancer .
Antibiotics are used to treat bacterial infections . However , they can sometimes have unintended consequences on the human body . For example , some antibiotics can kill the good bacteria that live inside the body , which can lead to diarrhea and other health problems . Therefore , there is a need to develop new antibiotics that can kill bacteria without harming the good bacteria . A new antibiotic called bedaquiline has been developed to treat tuberculosis , a bacterial infection that can be fatal if left untreated . It works by inhibiting the ATP synthase enzyme , which is essential for the bacteria to grow . However , little is known about how bedaquiline works in human cells . To investigate this , Tilley-Nixon et al . treated human monocyte-derived macrophages with bedaquiline and analyzed the genes that were switched on or off . Macrophages are the main cells that fight bacterial infections . Tilley-Nixon et al . found that bedaquiline activated a process called autophagy in human macrophages . Autophagy is the process by which cells break down and recycle old components . It also helps to eliminate bacteria . Tilley-Nixon et al . found that bedaquiline also increased the activity of an enzyme called lysosome-associated protein 1 ( LAP1 ) in human macrophages . This enzyme is involved in the production of hydrogen peroxide , which is a powerful antibacterial agent . Tilley-Nixon et al . also showed that bedaquiline increased the activity of other antibiotics that are used to treat tuberculosis . In addition , bedaquiline increased the ability of human macrophages to kill bacteria . Overall , Tilley-Nixon et al . show that bedaquiline is able to activate autophagy in human macrophages and increase their ability to fight bacterial infections . This could help to improve the efficacy of bedaquiline and other antibiotics against bacterial infections .
The lung is made up of a thin tissue called the epithelium that lines the inside of the airways . The epithelium is responsible for producing the substances that make the air inside the lung suitable for breathing . The epithelium also produces the cells that line the inside of the airways . The epithelial cells produce the proteins that line the inside of the airways and help the air to move in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells also produce the proteins that line the inside of the airways . The epithelial cells produce the proteins that line the inside of the airways and help the air to move in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells also produce the proteins that line the inside of the airways . The epithelial cells are in contact with other cells that line the outside of the airways . The cells on the outside of the airways are called mesenchyme cells . The mesenchyme cells are responsible for producing the connective tissue that supports the airways . The connective tissue helps to keep the airways open and supports the epithelial cells . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air to flow in and out of the lung . The epithelial cells and the mesenchyme cells work together to allow the air
Bacteria use specialized proteins called sensors to detect chemical signals in their environment and adjust their behavior accordingly . Sensors can detect different chemical signals such as nutrients or toxins and send signals to the cell to trigger specific responses . In the case of the bacteria Yersinia enterocolitica , these sensors are part of a protein complex called the injectisome . The injectisome is a nanomachine that spans the two bacterial membranes and exports proteins that can kill host cells or trigger other responses . The injectisome is also involved in the invasion of host cells and in the production of toxins that can harm the host . The injectisome is composed of at least 24 proteins , but the structure of the complex remains unknown . Here , Kudryashev et al . show that the injectisome is made of a ring of proteins that spans the outer membrane and the inner membrane of the bacteria . The ring is made of four proteins called YscD , YscJ , PrgH and PrgK . The proteins are anchored to the membranes by transmembrane helices , which are also part of the ring . The YscD protein has a flexible structure , allowing the ring to stretch and bend . This elasticity is likely to help the bacteria survive when exposed to stressful conditions such as high salt concentrations .
FERONIA is a protein that helps to control the growth of plant cells and the production of flowers and seeds . It also helps to ensure that the male and female cells of plants produce the correct number of gametes (sperm and egg cells) . In plants that lack FERONIA , the female cells produce fewer or no sperm cells , and the male cells produce fewer or no egg cells . The FERONIA protein is produced by the plant and then transported to the cell membrane . Once on the membrane , it can interact with other proteins to transmit signals to other parts of the plant . FERONIA also interacts with a group of proteins known as GPI-anchored proteins , which are important for cell signaling . These proteins are attached to the cell membrane by a sugar molecule called a glycan . How FERONIA interacts with GPI-anchored proteins and how it controls the production of sperm and egg cells remained unclear . Duan et al . have now shown that FERONIA interacts with two GPI-anchored proteins called LLG1 and LRE . These proteins are produced by the plant and are also attached to the cell membrane . FERONIA and the LLG1/LRE proteins work together to help FERONIA to localize to the cell membrane . This is important for FERONIA to transmit signals to other parts of the plant . FERONIA is also required to interact with other proteins to control cell growth and the production of flowers and seeds . These findings provide new insights into how FERONIA regulates plant growth and development .
A cell's DNA is packaged into structures called nucleosomes that are then coiled into a larger structure called chromatin. Chromatin is important for the packaging of DNA in all life forms, from bacteria to humans. The study of chromatin has been limited by the lack of knowledge about the number of nucleosomes in a given cell. Ammar et al . have now used a technique called micrococcal nuclease digestion to create a detailed map of chromatin in the single-celled archaeon Haloferax volcanii . This map shows that the chromatin in archaea is organized in a way that is similar to that seen in eukaryotes (animals and plants) and that the nucleosomes in archaea are also similar to those in eukaryotes. This suggests that the fundamental role of chromatin in the regulation of gene expression might be ancient. The study of chromatin in archaea also suggests that the packaging of DNA into nucleosomes was not the initial function of nucleosomes. This finding could have implications for the evolution of eukaryotes. The findings on chromatin in archaea could help scientists understand the evolution of eukaryotic chromatin and might lead to new ways of controlling gene expression.
Our bodies contain trillions of cells and hundreds of genes that instruct these cells to perform specific functions . Each cell has a network of proteins that can be activated or deactivated to trigger a wide range of actions . These proteins can be activated by specific molecules , such as amino acids , which are the building blocks of proteins . This process is known as cell signaling . The brain also uses cell signaling to determine how much energy the body has available and to trigger actions that help to conserve energy . One type of cell signaling is the activation of a protein called serotonin . Serotonin helps to regulate many behaviors , including appetite and sleep , and is also linked to aging . However , the mechanisms that control these processes are not fully understood . Now , Linford et al . have used fruit flies to show that serotonin signaling is important for aging . Fruit flies can eat either protein or carbohydrates , and they can also eat both . Linford et al . studied the fruit flies’ behavior when they were offered the choice between these two types of food . The fruit flies preferred to eat protein when they were hungry , but they did not show this preference when they were full . Linford et al . found that serotonin is involved in the activation of this preference for protein . In particular , the flies need a protein called JhI-21 to be activated in the brain to show a preference for protein . These experiments also showed that the fruit flies that had a reduced amount of serotonin lived longer than the fruit flies that had normal levels of serotonin . Linford et al . also found that fruit flies that were forced to eat protein when they were not hungry lived longer than fruit flies that were fed only carbohydrates . These findings suggest that serotonin signaling may be important for aging in fruit flies . The next step will be to investigate whether similar mechanisms are also involved in mammals .
Mutations are changes in the DNA sequence of a gene that can lead to cancer. But the role of mutations in cancer is not well understood. Grosso et al . now show that mutations in a gene called SETD2 can cause cancer cells to produce more proteins than normal cells . This is because mutations in SETD2 stop the gene from working properly , which leads to abnormalities in the way that proteins are produced . These abnormalities may help cancer cells to grow and divide uncontrollably . Grosso et al . also found that some cancer cells produce more proteins than normal cells because of a process called transcription read-through , which occurs when the RNA polymerase molecule that reads the DNA template keeps going past the end of the gene and reads the next gene instead . This can also lead to abnormalities in the way that proteins are produced . Grosso et al . found that cancer cells with mutations in SETD2 produce more proteins than normal cells because of this abnormality . The study shows that mutations in SETD2 can cause cancer cells to produce more proteins than normal cells , and that transcription read-through may play a role in the development of cancer . Further studies are needed to determine whether transcription read-through is a common feature of cancer cells and to find out how it contributes to the development of cancer .
Lipids are fats that are stored in the body and used for energy . They are transported through the bloodstream by proteins called lipids . A protein called lipoprotein lipase helps to break down lipids in the bloodstream . GPIHBP1 is a protein that helps to transport lipoprotein lipase to the blood vessels . When GPIHBP1 is not present , the lipoprotein lipase molecules are not able to reach the blood vessels and the lipids are not broken down . GPIHBP1 is a protein that is embedded in the membrane of the blood vessels and is anchored by a protein called GPI . The GPI anchor is a sugar molecule that is attached to the protein and helps to anchor it in the membrane . GPIHBP1 and GPI are both important for the proper functioning of the blood vessels . Mutations in GPIHBP1 and GPI have been linked to a condition called familial chylomicronemia , which is a rare genetic disorder . GPIHBP1 and GPI are also important for the development of heart disease . The two proteins work together to break down lipids in the bloodstream and deliver them to cells in the body . GPIHBP1 is a large protein that has two different parts: a long part called the LU domain and a short part called the acidic domain . The LU domain is involved in the binding of lipoprotein lipase to GPIHBP1 . The acidic domain is not well understood . Now , Mysling et al . have used advanced techniques to study the interaction between GPIHBP1 and lipoprotein lipase . They found that the acidic domain of GPIHBP1 is intrinsically disordered and helps to stabilize the catalytic domain of lipoprotein lipase . The acidic domain of GPIHBP1 also helps to deliver lipoprotein lipase to the blood vessels . These findings provide a new model for how GPIHBP1 and lipoprotein lipase work together to break down lipids in the bloodstream . This model could be used to develop new treatments for heart disease and other conditions that are linked to the abnormal metabolism of lipids in the blood .
Transcription factors are proteins that control the timing and rate of gene expression . They bind to specific parts of the DNA to activate or repress the expression of genes . When bacteria are exposed to amino acids , a transcription factor called TraR is produced and it activates the expression of genes involved in amino acid biosynthesis . TraR also inhibits the expression of genes involved in amino acid transport . However , how TraR activates or inhibits transcription is not well understood . Zhang et al . used a technique called cryo-electron microscopy to study the structure of the Escherichia coli RNA polymerase ( RNAP ) complex . This complex is responsible for transcribing genes into RNA , which is then used to make proteins . Zhang et al . found that TraR binds to RNAP and modifies its structure . This leads to the activation of genes involved in amino acid biosynthesis and inhibition of genes involved in amino acid transport . This study reveals how TraR can activate or inhibit transcription by altering the structure of RNAP . This insight could help in developing new antibiotics to combat amino acid starvation in bacteria .
Answer: The main focus of the research conducted by Hsu et al. is to investigate how biological signals from the gut communicate with the brain to enable learned feeding behavior.
Fiji is one of the Pacific islands that are most at risk of dengue fever . In 2013 and 2014 , a major outbreak of the disease occurred in Fiji , and the government responded by launching a nationwide clean-up campaign to reduce the spread of mosquitoes that can transmit dengue fever . The campaign included removing rubbish that could act as egg laying habitats for mosquitoes . It is not clear whether this campaign reduced the risk of dengue fever in Fiji . Kucharski et al . conducted a survey of blood samples from 107 individuals who had lived in Central Division , Fiji , before and after the outbreak . The survey showed that many people had developed immunity against dengue , but the risk of infection was higher among children and teenagers . Kucharski et al . also used mathematical models to study how dengue fever spread during the outbreak . The models suggested that the nationwide clean-up campaign could have reduced the transmission of the disease , but this was not the only factor that affected the spread of the disease . The findings suggest that studying immunity against dengue can help health agencies better understand disease transmission and develop more effective prevention strategies .
Mitochondria are structures that contain their own genetic material and are found in the cells of most living organisms . They are essential for the production of energy for the cell . Mitochondria also play a role in the detoxification of harmful substances such as hydrogen peroxide . The production of hydrogen peroxide can be a result of normal cellular processes . However , excessive levels of hydrogen peroxide can be harmful to the cell and can lead to cell death . This is why cells have developed a number of mechanisms to detoxify excess hydrogen peroxide . One of these mechanisms involves the use of a molecule called trypanothione . Trypanothione is a type of thiol molecule that can donate electrons to hydrogen peroxide to reduce it to water and oxygen . The molecule is produced in the cell and stored in the mitochondria . In a recent study , Ebersoll et al . created a fluorescent sensor that could detect changes in the levels of trypanothione in live cells . The sensor was fused to a protein called roGFP2 , which was used to visualize the fluorescent signal in the cell . The experiments showed that the fluorescent sensor could detect changes in the levels of trypanothione in the mitochondria of African trypanosomes , a group of parasites that cause sleeping sickness in humans and animals . The experiments also revealed that the mitochondria of African trypanosomes contain a trypanothione-based redox metabolism . This was the first time that this had been discovered in a single mitochondrion of a living organism . The results also showed that the trypanothione system in the mitochondria is less efficient than in the cytosol . Further studies will be needed to understand how the trypanothione system in the mitochondria works and how it can be targeted to develop new treatments for sleeping sickness .
Paget’s disease of bone (PDB) is a disorder in which the body tries to repair damaged bone by producing more bone cells than it needs . This leads to bones becoming weak and misshapen , and can cause pain and fractures . Genetic factors play a role in PDB , but environmental factors such as diet , pollution , and infection are also thought to contribute to its development . To investigate how PDB is triggered by the environment , Diboun et al . analyzed the DNA of 253 people with PDB and 280 healthy people . This revealed that PDB patients had increased methylation of certain genes in their DNA , which could be used as a biomarker to identify people at risk of developing the disease . This could help identify people at risk of PDB before irreversible damage occurs . Further research is needed to understand the role of methylation in PDB .
The cells in our blood are made in a group of organs called the lymph glands . The lymph glands are found in the body and are responsible for producing blood cells . These blood cells are produced from a type of stem cell called a hemocyte , which is a type of blood cell that can give rise to different types of blood cells . In fruit flies , the lymph glands are much simpler than those found in humans . This makes them useful models for studying the development of blood cells . However , the identity of the stem cells that give rise to blood cells in fruit flies is still unknown . The stem cells in fruit flies are called Hematopoietic Stem Cells ( HSCs ) . These cells have several properties that are similar to those of the stem cells that give rise to blood cells in humans . For instance , they are niche-dependent , meaning that they require a particular type of signal to survive and function . It was previously thought that the HSCs in fruit flies are the same as the stem cells found in humans . However , the identity of the HSCs in fruit flies was unknown . Now , the authors of the present study have identified the HSCs in fruit flies . These cells are located near the heart of the fruit fly larvae , and produce a signal called Dpp . The HSCs also produce another signal called Mad , which is required to maintain them . The authors of the present study show that the HSCs in fruit flies are the same as the stem cells that give rise to blood cells in humans . These findings open up new possibilities for studying the development of blood cells and the mechanisms that control their production .
The alveoli are tiny air sacs in the lungs that allow gases to exchange between the air and bloodstream . The alveoli are formed when a thin membrane called the primary septa divides the sacs into individual air sacs . The primary septa are then subdivided into secondary septa , which are formed by alveolar cells folding to form a thin layer of cells that line the air sacs . The secondary septa are essential for the lung to be able to function properly , as they increase the amount of air that can be exchanged between the blood and the air . It is not clear how the primary septa are formed , but it is known that the formation of the secondary septa is important for the development of the lungs . The formation of the secondary septa is also important for the lung to heal after injury . The primary septa are formed by the folding of a single layer of cells . The secondary septa are formed by two layers of cells . However , it is not clear how the secondary septa are formed . Zhang et al . – including members of the same team – have now discovered that the formation of the secondary septa is controlled by a molecular pathway that is involved in the development of the fruit fly . This pathway , known as the planar cell polarity pathway , is activated by a protein called Wnt5a . The Wnt5a protein is produced by alveolar cells , which then sends a signal to myofibroblasts – cells that produce connective tissue and help to expand the air sacs . The myofibroblasts then proliferate and move to the site of the secondary septa . The Wnt5a protein also causes the alveolar cells to change their shape , so that they can fold up to enclose the myofibroblasts . The Wnt5a signal is also important for the myofibroblasts to produce a protein called PDGF , which helps to keep the myofibroblasts moving . Zhang et al . also discovered that the formation of the secondary septa is dependent on a molecular pathway that is activated by a protein called Vangl2 . The Vangl2 protein is found in alveolar cells and helps to coordinate the movements of the cells in the primary septa . The Vangl2 protein is also involved in the formation of the secondary septa , as it is necessary for the Wnt5a signal to be sent from the alveolar cells to the myofibroblasts . The results of this study reveal new mechanisms for the formation of the secondary septa and how they are controlled by the Wnt5a and Vangl2 proteins . The findings of Zhang et al . may help to develop new treatments for lung diseases such as bronchopulmonary dysplasia , in which the alveoli fail to develop properly .
Proteins are made of amino acids . The amino acids are brought to the ribosome , the cell’s protein factory , by amino acid-carrying molecules called tRNAs . The ribosome reads the sequence of amino acids to build the protein . The ribosome also reads the sequence of the tRNA molecules to make sure the amino acids match the correct sequence . The ribosome uses enzymes called aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases to carry out this process . These enzymes are like tiny factories that build proteins by matching the tRNA molecules to the amino acids . If the tRNA molecules do not match the amino acids , the ribosome will make a mistake and the protein will be faulty . This faulty protein can cause problems for the cell . One of the enzymes that helps the ribosome to match the tRNA molecules to the amino acids is called phenylalanine tRNA synthetase . The enzyme is found in Escherichia coli , which is a bacterium that lives in the human gut . Without this enzyme , E . coli cannot grow . This is because the enzyme is needed to prevent the E . coli cells from making faulty proteins . The enzyme works by recognizing the tRNA molecules that match the amino acids and the ones that do not . It then adds the amino acids to the tRNA molecules . In E . coli , the enzyme recognizes the amino acids in the correct order . However , the enzyme does not recognize the amino acids in the wrong order . This means that the E . coli cells can make proteins that are faulty . It is not clear how the enzyme works and why it recognizes the correct amino acids and not the wrong ones . Now , Yadavalli et al . have investigated the role of phenylalanine tRNA synthetase in E . coli . They found that the enzyme is needed for the E . coli cells to grow . The enzyme also helps the cells to make proteins that are not faulty . The enzyme works by adding the amino acids to the tRNA molecules in the correct order . Without the enzyme , the E . coli cells cannot make proteins that are faulty . Yadavalli et al . also found that the enzyme helps the cells to make proteins that contain amino acids that are not found in the genetic code . This means that the enzyme is needed for the E . coli cells to make proteins that contain non-proteinogenic amino acids . These are amino acids that are not used by the cells . They are also known as non-proteinogenic amino acids . The cells need to be able to make these proteins to help them survive . The enzyme helps the cells to make proteins that are faulty . This means that it is important for the cells to have the enzyme . It is also important for the cells to have the enzyme to make proteins that contain non-proteinogenic amino acids . This is because the cells cannot make these proteins without the enzyme . The next step is to find out why the enzyme is needed for the cells to make these proteins . This will help us to understand how the enzyme works .
Cells need to be able to communicate with each other to form tissues and organs . This is achieved by the production of a network of molecules that surrounds each cell . These molecules are known as the extracellular matrix . In this network , cells can also communicate with each other by producing a molecule called chitin . In fruit flies , chitin forms a thick , helical structure that helps to keep the airways open . These airways are called tracheas . The chitinous aECM provides a mechanical strength that allows the tracheas to expand to their full size and support the fly . However , the role of chitin in the formation of the tracheal aECM was not well understood . Moussian , Luschnig et al . now show that chitin forms a helical structure that is organized in a specific pattern . This pattern helps to form the tracheal aECM and also to ensure that the airways are able to expand . The chitinous aECM also plays a role in maintaining the correct arrangement of actin filaments in the tracheal cells . These filaments are important for the structure of the trachea and also help to keep the airways open . In addition , Moussian , Luschnig et al . also show that a feedback mechanism is in place to ensure that the tracheal aECM is able to regulate the arrangement of the actin filaments . This feedback mechanism involves a molecule called Src42A . When the activity of Src42A is increased , the tracheal aECM becomes less able to regulate the arrangement of actin filaments . This results in the trachea becoming less flexible . In summary , Moussian , Luschnig et al . have shown that the chitinous aECM is essential for the formation of the tracheal aECM and that it also helps to maintain the correct arrangement of the actin filaments .
Our brain can make decisions with multiple layers of sub-decisions. For example, when we look at a tree , we first have to decide which branch to follow . Then we have to decide which branch to follow when we reach a bifurcation . And we have to make another decision when we reach the next bifurcation . Zylberberg et al . studied how monkeys make these decisions using a task in which they had to trace a curve with two branches . The monkeys had to choose which branch to follow at each bifurcation . The monkeys had to make many decisions in parallel . Zylberberg et al . then analyzed the data and found that the monkeys’ brains processed the decisions in a hierarchical manner . Zylberberg et al . then re-analyzed the data to confirm that the monkeys use a hierarchical strategy to make decisions . The re-analysis of the data revealed that the monkeys’ brains process decisions in a hierarchical manner . This finding is important because it shows that the brain can make decisions with multiple layers of sub-decisions . It also suggests that the brain can use different strategies for different tasks . Zylberberg et al . then tested whether a similar decision-making process occurs in humans . They found that the brain processes decisions in a hierarchical manner in humans too . This finding suggests that the brain can use different strategies for different tasks . Future studies can now investigate how the brain processes decisions in a hierarchical manner .
Our brains are wired to learn new information by comparing it to what we already know . For example , we can learn to associate a particular smell with a particular taste by comparing it to the smell of foods we are already familiar with . This is a fundamental aspect of learning and memory . It is not clear how the brain processes new information . However , research has shown that when we are learning something new , our brains use a mental line to organize the information in our minds . The mental line is like a map that helps us to understand relationships between different stimuli . The brain activity patterns of the volunteers in the study resembled the mental line . The study suggests that learning new things involves organizing new information using past knowledge of relations between stimuli . The study also suggests that the brain is able to learn new information more quickly when it is organized in a way that is similar to the mental line . This could help to explain how the brain learns new information . It could also help to develop artificial intelligence that is able to learn and adapt more quickly .
Salmonella bacteria cause vomiting and diarrhea in humans . Salmonella bacteria can survive inside human cells by hiding inside a vacuole , a compartment inside the cell where the cell stores food and waste . This vacuole is created when Salmonella bacteria are engulfed by human cells . The vacuole is a small , enclosed space that can be acidic and low in oxygen , which can help Salmonella bacteria survive . Salmonella bacteria have a protein called SsrB that helps them survive inside the vacuole . The SsrB protein can switch on genes that allow Salmonella bacteria to survive inside the vacuole . However , the precise mechanism that triggers SsrB to switch on these genes is not known . Liew et al . have now used advanced imaging techniques to study how SsrB works . This revealed that SsrB protein levels increased when Salmonella bacteria were grown in acidic conditions . This acidic environment is similar to the one inside the vacuole . SsrB protein also became more likely to bind to DNA when Salmonella bacteria were grown in acidic conditions . These results suggest that acidic conditions trigger SsrB to switch on genes that help Salmonella bacteria survive inside the vacuole . Further studies will be needed to determine whether this mechanism also applies to other Salmonella bacteria that live inside human cells .
Cancer is a disease where abnormal cells grow and spread in the body. A protein called RalB helps cancer cells move around and spread to other parts of the body . Zago et al . studied how RalB helps cancer cells move and spread to other parts of the body . Zago et al . found that RalB is necessary for cancer cells to move and spread to other parts of the body . They also found that RalB helps cancer cells move and spread to other parts of the body by recruiting a group of proteins called the Wave Regulatory Complex . Zago et al . also found that RalB is more active in cancers that have mutations in the Ras gene . These results suggest that RalB might be a promising target for drugs that treat cancers with Ras mutations . Future research could investigate if drugs that target RalB could be used to treat cancers with Ras mutations .
Actin filaments are the building blocks of cells . They are made up of a protein called actin , and help to build structures such as muscles and the cytoskeleton , which is a network of filaments that helps to keep cells together and move . Cells use actin filaments to move substances around the cell and to pull the cell forward . The filaments are made up of a long chain of actin molecules that are linked together by a protein called actin . The actin molecules are made up of a rod-shaped protein that is folded into a spiral shape . The actin filament is like a flexible rod that can bend and twist . The filament is attached to the surface of a cell by proteins called side-binding proteins . The side-binding proteins can affect the structure of the filament and alter its function . Crevenna et al . wanted to understand how the side-binding proteins change the growth of actin filaments . To do this , Crevenna et al . used a technique called total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy . This technique involves using a special microscope to look at the filaments from the side . Crevenna et al . found that the side-binding proteins caused the actin filament to grow faster and slower . The side-binding proteins also caused the filament to change its shape . Some proteins caused the filament to bend and twist more . Other proteins caused the filament to be more straight . The side-binding proteins also caused the filament to stop growing when it reached a certain length . The proteins that caused the filament to stop growing are important for cell movement and division . The side-binding proteins are also important for the development of cells . Future research could investigate how the side-binding proteins affect the structure of the filament and the role of the filament in cell movement and division .
Cells are the basic units of life . They contain a nucleus , which contains DNA , and a cytoplasm , which contains proteins . DNA contains the genetic information that is used to make proteins . Proteins are made by a process called transcription , which involves reading a section of DNA and making a copy of it . The copy of DNA is called RNA . When the RNA is made , a protein called RNA polymerase moves along the DNA , making a copy of the DNA as it goes . The RNA is then released from the DNA and is made into a protein . The rate at which the RNA is released is controlled by a molecule called the transcription factor . The transcription factor is bound to the DNA by a protein called RNA polymerase . The rate at which the RNA polymerase moves along the DNA is controlled by a protein called the promoter . The promoter is a short section of DNA that is recognized by the RNA polymerase , and it makes it bind to the DNA . The RNA polymerase then moves along the DNA and makes a copy of the DNA , releasing the RNA . The RNA polymerase then moves away from the DNA and releases the RNA , and this process is called elongation . The RNA polymerase then runs off the DNA and the RNA is made into a protein . The rate at which the RNA polymerase moves along the DNA and makes a copy of the DNA is called the transcription cycle . The rate at which the RNA polymerase makes a copy of the DNA is called the transcription rate . The rate at which the RNA polymerase runs off the DNA is called the elongation rate . The rate at which the RNA polymerase makes a protein is called the termination rate . The transcription rate , elongation rate and termination rate are all controlled by the transcription factor , which is bound to the DNA by the RNA polymerase . The transcription factor is usually bound to the DNA by the RNA polymerase for a short time , and then the RNA polymerase runs off the DNA and makes a protein . The transcription factor is then released from the DNA and the RNA polymerase moves along the DNA to make another copy of the DNA . The rate at which the RNA polymerase moves along the DNA is controlled by the promoter , and it is usually much faster than the rate at which the RNA polymerase makes a copy of the DNA . The transcription factor is a protein that is made by the cell . It is controlled by other proteins and it controls the rate at which the RNA polymerase moves along the DNA . The rate at which the RNA polymerase makes a copy of the DNA is controlled by the transcription rate , which is a measure of how fast the RNA polymerase moves along the DNA . The rate at which the RNA polymerase runs off the DNA is controlled by the elongation rate , which is a measure of how fast the RNA polymerase makes a copy of the DNA . The rate at which the RNA polymerase makes a protein is controlled by the termination rate , which is a measure of how fast the RNA polymerase runs off the DNA . The transcription cycle is the sequence of steps that the RNA polymerase makes in the process of making an RNA . The transcription rate , elongation rate and termination rate are all important steps in the transcription cycle . The transcription rate , elongation rate and termination rate are all controlled by the transcription factor , and they are all important steps in the transcription cycle . The transcription rate is the rate at which the RNA polymerase reads the DNA . The elongation rate is the rate at which the RNA polymerase makes a copy of the DNA . The termination rate is the rate at which the RNA polymerase runs off the DNA . The transcription rate , elongation rate and termination rate are all important steps in the transcription cycle , and they are all controlled by the transcription factor .
Histones are proteins that help control gene activity . They are the building blocks of chromatin , which is the complex of DNA and proteins that makes up chromosomes in a cell . Methylation of histones can either activate or inhibit gene activity . Methylation is a process by which a chemical group called a methyl group is added to a specific amino acid in histones . This process is important in controlling gene activity and switching genes on or off . In some cancers , a histone protein called H3K9 is modified to have a methionine instead of a lysine . This mutation is associated with tumor growth . It is not clear how these histone modifications affect the activity of other enzymes . The structure of H3K9methyltransferases , which are enzymes that methylate histones , could reveal how H3K9methionine affects these enzymes . Here , Zhang et al . used a simpler organism called fission yeast to study the effects of H3K9methionine on H3K9methyltransferases . Zhang et al . found that H3K9methionine traps the enzymes and prevents them from methylating other histones . The enzymes are trapped by a methionine group that is similar to the methionine group found on H3K9 . The methionine group binds to a specific part of the enzymes , and this interaction prevents the enzymes from interacting with other histones . The structure of H3K9methyltransferases also reveals how methionine binds to these enzymes . Zhang et al . also found that the effects of H3K9methionine on H3K9methyltransferases could be alleviated by adding a phosphate group to a specific amino acid in the enzymes . This suggests that H3K9methionine can be detoxified by adding phosphate groups to the enzymes . Further studies could investigate the role of H3K9methionine in cancer . The study of H3K9methionine could also help to develop new cancer therapies .
Cells contain tiny structures called nucleosomes that make up their DNA. These structures are made up of DNA and proteins called histones . When the DNA is being copied into RNA , the nucleosomes can block the process . This is because the DNA is wrapped around the histones . This blocks the RNA-making process . To overcome this problem , cells have a protein called RNA polymerase II ( Pol II ) that can read the DNA and copy it . Pol II reads the DNA by moving along the nucleosomes . When Pol II reaches a nucleosome , it pauses and waits for a signal to move on . This is called promoter-proximal pausing . Pol II then continues to read the DNA and copies it into RNA . However , the exact process of promoter-proximal pausing is not well understood . The study by Lee et al . shows that a protein called JMJD6 helps to control the pausing of Pol II . JMJD6 binds to the RNA Pol II and to a protein called MePCE . JMJD6 then cuts MePCE , which releases Pol II . This allows Pol II to continue to read the DNA and copy it into RNA . The study also shows that the levels of Pol II increase when JMJD6 is present . This means that the levels of RNA being made also increase . The findings of Lee et al . suggest that JMJD6 may be important for the production of RNA . Further work is needed to confirm this and to understand the role of JMJD6 in promoter-proximal pausing .
In humans and other animals , sex cells contain only one copy of each chromosome . This is important for sexual reproduction , as it allows each parent to pass on half of their genetic information to their offspring . The process of making sex cells involves the creation of a copy of every chromosome in the body , and then cutting the chromosomes in half to make sure each sex cell has only one copy of each chromosome . This process is called meiosis . The process is also important for making sure that the genetic information is not lost , as it ensures that the offspring have the same genetic information as their parents . The process of meiosis involves the formation of two copies of every chromosome , and then cutting each chromosome into two pieces . The pieces are then exchanged between the two sex cells . This process is called homologous recombination . It is a complex process , and there are many different proteins that help to make it happen . One of these proteins is called PRDM9 . PRDM9 is a protein that helps to make sure that the chromosomes are exchanged correctly . To make sure that the chromosomes are exchanged correctly , PRDM9 needs to bind to the chromosomes . The PRDM9 protein binds to a small number of specific sites on each chromosome , called hotspots . These hotspots are marked by two chemical modifications to the DNA . One of these chemical modifications is called methyl-CpG , and the other is called methyl-H3K36 . These modifications are made by another protein called PRDM9-HELLS . The proteins that help to exchange the chromosomes during meiosis also need to bind to these hotspots . One such protein is called ZCWPW1 . In the current study , the researchers wanted to understand how PRDM9 and ZCWPW1 work together to make sure that the chromosomes are exchanged correctly during meiosis . The researchers used a variety of techniques to study mice that had been bred without ZCWPW1 . The mice had problems exchanging the chromosomes correctly , and many of them were infertile . The researchers found that ZCWPW1 binds to the same hotspots as PRDM9 , and that this helps to make sure that the chromosomes are exchanged correctly . The researchers also found that ZCWPW1 also binds to many other sites on the chromosomes , but these sites do not help to exchange the chromosomes . The researchers suggest that ZCWPW1 might help to exchange the chromosomes by binding to the chromosomes that contain the methyl-CpG mark . These results suggest that ZCWPW1 is important for the exchange of chromosomes during meiosis , and that it works together with PRDM9 to make sure that the chromosomes are exchanged correctly .
Mammals have two X chromosomes , one inherited from each parent . In females , one of these X chromosomes is inactive . In males , both X chromosomes are active . This is because each of their two X chromosomes have the same set of genes . The inactive X chromosome in females is switched off by a process called X chromosome inactivation . The switch is controlled by a protein called Xist . Xist is a noncoding RNA , which is a type of molecule that does not code for proteins . It is not clear how Xist works to switch off the inactive X chromosome . Now , Xu et al . have shown that Xist works by binding to a protein called Spen . Spen is a protein that helps to switch off genes in the genome . Xist binds to Spen in a way that is similar to how it binds to genes . This means that Xist can use Spen to switch off genes on the inactive X chromosome . Xu et al . also found that Spen binds to a type of genetic element called retrotransposons . Retrotransposons are pieces of DNA that can jump around the genome . They can also turn into genes . Xu et al . propose that retrotransposons may have played a role in the evolution of Xist . In the distant past , retrotransposons could have jumped into the genome of a mammal and triggered a process that switched off the inactive X chromosome . This would have allowed the mammal to make use of the inactive X chromosome . This process may have allowed mammals to develop the same ability to switch off the inactive X chromosome as other animals . Xu et al . also found that Spen can switch off retrotransposons in a way that is similar to how it switches off genes . This means that Spen may have helped to switch off the inactive X chromosome by switching off retrotransposons .
In our immune system , immune cells form a network of filaments called microtubules that help them to recognize and eliminate foreign pathogens . The microtubules are made up of long filaments called microtubules , which are made up of proteins called tubulin . These microtubules are very important for immune cells to move , divide and form a structure called an immunological synapse . This is the area where immune cells meet to exchange information and coordinate their attack on a pathogen . But the microtubules are not the only structures that are important for immune cells . Other structures called microfilaments are also important for immune cells to move and divide . The microfilaments are made up of a protein called actin . These microfilaments are very similar to microtubules , but they are much shorter . The microfilaments are also important for immune cells to form an immunological synapse . Mutations in genes that code for proteins that control the growth of microtubules and microfilaments can cause immune cells to not be able to form an immunological synapse . This can lead to autoimmune diseases , which occur when the immune system attacks the body’s own cells . For example , people with a mutation in the KIF21B gene may develop rheumatoid arthritis , which is a disease in which the immune system attacks the body’s joints . Researchers have now found that KIF21B is a protein that controls the growth of microtubules and microfilaments . This protein helps immune cells to form an immunological synapse . In the absence of KIF21B , immune cells cannot form an immunological synapse and they cannot recognize and eliminate pathogens . This means that KIF21B is essential for immune cells to be able to fight off infections . The findings also suggest that KIF21B could be used to develop new treatments for cancer . If cancer cells have too many microtubules and microfilaments , they may be able to move around and spread to other parts of the body . By blocking the growth of microtubules and microfilaments , it may be possible to prevent the spread of cancer cells . This could help to develop new treatments for cancer .
Animals have evolved to interact with each other in complex ways that can affect their health . For example , males can shorten the lifespan of females by producing sperm . In the nematode worm Caenorhabditis elegans , males shorten the lifespan of hermaphrodites by producing sperm . This is known as male-induced demise . Hermaphrodites are animals that have both male and female reproductive organs . Previous studies have shown that hermaphrodites can live longer when they are young and do not produce sperm . However , it is not clear how this happens . To find out , Booth et al . used a technique to track the movement of sperm in the hermaphrodite worms . They found that young hermaphrodites were protected from the negative effects of male-induced demise . This protection is caused by a mechanism that detects sperm in the hermaphrodite’s somatic cells . This mechanism is also present in other nematode worms , including a related species called Caenorhabditis briggsae . This suggests that hermaphrodites may have evolved a way to protect themselves from the negative effects of mating with males . These findings may help to understand how animals interact with each other . It could also lead to new ways to improve health in animals .
Tuberculosis is caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium tuberculosis . It is the leading cause of deaths worldwide , and is difficult to cure because it can develop resistance to the drugs used to treat the infection . The bacterium is thought to survive by adapting to the conditions in the body and the drugs used to treat the infection . M . tuberculosis can grow and divide in the body of a person infected with the disease . It can also grow in a laboratory , where it can be studied . However , it is difficult to study the bacterium's growth in the laboratory because it is hard to mimic the conditions inside the body . To overcome this , scientists have developed new ways to grow the bacterium in the laboratory . In 2013 , two studies revealed that M . tuberculosis can use a number of different nutrients as a source of nitrogen . Nitrogen is an essential nutrient for M . tuberculosis , and is found in many different molecules in the body . Scientists believe that understanding how M . tuberculosis uses nitrogen could help scientists design new drugs that target the bacterium's nitrogen-acquiring processes . However , little is known about the nitrogen metabolism of M . tuberculosis . In this study , the researchers used a technique called mass spectrometry to study how M . tuberculosis uses nitrogen . The results showed that M . tuberculosis can use all 20 of the proteinogenic amino acids ( the amino acids that are used to make proteins ) as a source of nitrogen . This was a surprise , because the bacterium is thought to only use one nitrogen source . The results also showed that M . tuberculosis can use a number of different nitrogen sources simultaneously . This is unusual in bacteria , which usually grow on one source of nutrients at a time . The findings of this study could help scientists develop new drugs that target the bacterium's nitrogen-acquiring processes .
HIF proteins help animals adapt to low oxygen levels . In this process , HIF proteins activate genes that help the cells survive in low oxygen levels . These genes then help the cells to grow and divide more slowly . HIF proteins are also involved in the development of many organs and tissues in animals . HIF proteins are made from a family of proteins . Each protein is made up of several subunits that are called HIF-α , HIF-β , HIF-γ , and HIF-3α . HIF-α proteins are the most common form of HIF proteins and are the main drivers of HIF activity . HIF-β proteins work with HIF-α proteins to activate genes . HIF-γ proteins have a role in other processes such as the development of organs . HIF-3α proteins have been found to be important in the development of organs in fish . HIF-3α proteins are also important in the development of the brain and the heart in fish . However , little is known about the role of HIF-3α proteins in animals . Zhang et al . have now found that a form of HIF-3α called Hif-3α2 is important in the development of the zebrafish embryo . This form of Hif-3α is produced in the nucleus and can activate genes in the nucleus . It is also important in the development of the embryo's left-right asymmetry . Zhang et al . found that Hif-3α2 inhibits a protein called β-catenin . This protein is important in the development of the embryo's left-right asymmetry . Zhang et al . found that Hif-3α2 destabilizes β-catenin and prevents it from being able to activate genes . This means that Hif-3α2 can regulate the development of the embryo by inhibiting β-catenin . Hif-3α2 is also important in the development of the embryo's heart . This is the first time that a role for Hif-3α2 has been found in the development of an animal . Further research is needed to understand the role of Hif-3α2 in the development of animals .
Stem cells are the cells that provide the many different types of cells necessary for an organism's development and survival . These cells must be kept in a specialized niche , a protective environment that allows them to divide and differentiate . Stem cells are typically found in the niche of the gonads in the roundworm Caenorhabditis elegans . The niche is made up of two somatic cells , the distal tip cell ( DTC ) and the sheath cells , and is known to be a well-studied example of a stem cell niche . The DTC is surrounded by sheath cells and the gonad , but the sheath cells were thought to only contact the DTC . However , Linden et al . have now shown that the sheath cells contact the DTC and other cells in the niche . Linden et al . also showed that the sheath cells help stem cells leave the niche and differentiate . The sheath cells are able to reach out and wrap around stem cells , making it difficult for them to leave the niche . This means that the sheath cells are an overlooked regulator of stem cell niche dynamics . Further studies will be needed to understand how this mechanism works and how it may be applied to other organisms .
Cells are the basic units of life and contain many different types of molecules that perform a wide range of tasks . The cells are surrounded by a gel-like substance called cytoplasm that is filled with water and other molecules . Some of these molecules are important for the cell to work and other molecules are the building blocks of the cell . The cytoplasm is a busy place where molecules interact with each other in a crowded environment . This makes it difficult to study the interactions between molecules and how they work together . Now , researchers have built a computer simulation that recreates a cytoplasm in detail . The simulation shows that the molecules in the cytoplasm are not just in random positions but they interact with each other . The simulation also reveals that the cytoplasm changes the way that molecules work . For example , the simulation shows that the cytoplasm slows down the movement of molecules and makes it harder for them to bind to each other . This means that some molecules may be unable to bind to each other and perform their functions . The simulation also shows that some molecules interact with each other more strongly than they do in a lab . This could be important for understanding how cells work and how drugs could be designed to work in cells .
The influenza virus is a common cause of illness in humans and birds . It has two proteins , called hemagglutinin and neuraminidase , which it uses to infect cells . The hemagglutinin protein on the surface of the virus attaches to the host cell and triggers the fusion of the viral membrane with the host cell membrane . The membrane then merges into a single compartment , allowing the virus to enter the cell . This process is slow , which means that it takes a long time for the virus to infect a cell . The viral membrane is made up of two layers of lipids , which are surrounded by proteins . The hemagglutinin protein on the surface of the virus is made up of a trimer of three proteins , which is the structure that triggers the fusion of the membranes . The viral membrane is also made up of a trimer of proteins , and the fusion of the two membranes requires that three or four of the viral proteins must be in contact with each other . The mechanism that triggers the fusion of the membranes is not well understood . Ivanovic et al . have now used a technique called single-virion analysis to study the process of membrane fusion in influenza virus . This involves monitoring the fusion of individual viruses with a planar bilayer of lipids . The experiments showed that the fusion of the viral membrane with the host cell membrane is a complex process that requires the interaction of three or four hemagglutinin proteins . The experiments also revealed that the fusion of the membranes occurs in two stages . The first stage is the formation of a stable , membrane-inserted intermediate that lasts for a minute or longer . This intermediate is stabilized by the interaction of the hemagglutinin proteins with each other and with the host cell membrane . The second stage is the rapid fusion of the membranes . The experiments showed that the fusion of the membranes occurs through the action of three or four hemagglutinin proteins . This suggests that the virus is not able to infect cells as effectively as previously thought . The findings of Ivanovic et al . provide new insights into the fundamental mechanisms of cellular processes . They also have implications for the development of new drugs that target the membrane fusion process .
Answer: The main purpose of the study is to gain a better understanding of how the human brain works.
Animals use a variety of behaviors to survive and reproduce . Mating and fighting behaviors are important for these goals . Mating behaviors are essential for reproduction , whereas fighting is important for establishing dominance and defending resources . These behaviors are regulated by specific neurons that are controlled by brain circuits . The neural circuits that control mating and fighting behaviors are not well understood . However , many researchers believe that the brain circuits that control mating and fighting behaviors are similar , and that they are controlled by a few neurons that are involved in both behaviors . One of these neurons is called the P1 neuron . The P1 neuron is located in the brain of male fruit flies . It is known to promote male courtship behavior , which is the mating behavior of flies . However , it is not clear whether the P1 neuron also plays a role in fighting . Hopper et al . set out to answer this question by screening over 3 , 000 genetically modified male flies to identify neurons that trigger both aggression and courtship behavior . The results showed that a small number of P1 neurons in the male brain can trigger both aggression and courtship . This suggests that the brain circuits that control mating and fighting behaviors are similar . The P1 neurons were found to be activated by a single episode of light , which caused the neurons to fire for several minutes . This persistent activation of the P1 neurons triggered aggression in male flies that were separated from other flies , and it also triggered aggression in male flies that were not engaged in courtship behavior . These results suggest that the P1 neurons may play a role in regulating aggression and fighting in male flies . The next step is to determine if this is also true in other animals .
Recombination is the process by which chromosomes exchange genetic information in the reproductive cells of sexually reproducing organisms . In plants , such as the model species Arabidopsis thaliana , recombination can occur in different ways . In one process , known as crossover recombination , homologous chromosomes exchange segments of DNA . In another process , known as gene conversion , a gene on one chromosome is replaced with a copy from another chromosome . Gene conversion is rare in most organisms , but it is more common in plants . However , it is not clear why this is the case . To investigate , Wijnker et al . sequenced the genomes of 52 offspring of 13 Arabidopsis thaliana plants . These offspring had been generated by crossing two different parental plants , and each offspring had a unique combination of chromosomes . Wijnker et al . identified 10 gene conversions . However , these events were much less common than crossover recombination , which is the other way that chromosomes exchange genetic information . Wijnker et al . also found that gene conversions were more likely to occur near the start of genes , which is where the genetic information is encoded . This suggests that gene conversion may be a way for plants to introduce new genetic variation . The next step will be to determine whether gene conversion helps plants adapt to changing environments .
In order to master a new movement, intensive training is essential . However , prolonged physical exertion can cause fatigue . In the past , researchers have shown that fatigue does not affect learning a new task . Here , the authors of this study tested how fatigue affects the acquisition of a new motor skill . They asked 121 healthy volunteers to perform a pinch force task over two days . On the first day , some of the volunteers were fatigued and on the second day they performed the task without fatigue . The authors found that fatigue interferes with learning a new motor skill . The findings suggest that fatigue may affect learning new movements and could help rehabilitation programs .
When DNA is damaged , cells can repair it to keep the genetic code intact . Cancer cells can also repair DNA damage to grow and spread . To treat cancer , drugs called DNA repair inhibitors are used to slow down or stop DNA repair . However , cancer cells often develop ways to evade these drugs . One way is by producing new proteins that block DNA repair . One of these proteins is called Rev7 . The researchers behind this study wanted to understand how DNA repair works in cells and how Rev7 helps to keep DNA damage in check . To do this , they used a simple model organism called fission yeast . They created cells with a faulty DNA repair system and then used a special technique to see how the cells repair DNA damage . The researchers found that Rev7 helps to keep DNA damage under control by blocking a process called long-range resection . When Rev7 is missing , the DNA repair system becomes hyperactive and cells produce longer DNA repair tracts . This can make the cancer cells more aggressive and resistant to DNA repair inhibitors . The researchers also found that cancer cells that are missing Rev7 can become resistant to DNA repair inhibitors . This suggests that Rev7 is a potential target for new cancer treatments . The researchers plan to investigate how the DNA repair system works in more complex cells , such as human cells . If they can understand how DNA repair works , they can develop new ways to target cancer cells and treat cancer more effectively .
Every living being is unique, with a unique combination of genes that determine how they look and behave . The genes that determine how a living organism develops are called ‘embryonic genes’ . The genes that control the development of an embryo are often mutated in diseases such as cancer , and some of these mutations can be inherited . However , most of the genes that control embryonic development are not mutated in human disease . This raises questions about what causes the mutations that do occur , and how these mutations affect the development of the embryo . Paaby et al . studied the embryonic genes of a nematode worm called Caenorhabditis elegans . This worm has a simple embryonic development process , which makes it easier to study . The experiments revealed that many mutations in the embryonic genes of C . elegans can affect the development of the embryo . The experiments also showed that some of the mutations were inherited , while others were not . The mutations that were not inherited were not caused by the mutation itself , but by the environment . The mutations that were inherited were not always harmful , and some even had beneficial effects . The mutations that were not inherited were caused by environmental factors such as the worm's diet . The results of Paaby et al . suggest that mutations that are inherited can affect the development of an embryo , and that these mutations can be inherited from parents to offspring . The findings of Paaby et al . also suggest that many mutations in the embryonic genes of humans may be inherited , and that these mutations may have important effects on human health .
Bacteria are microbes that can be found in almost every environment on Earth . They are able to survive in a variety of different conditions and can live in harmony with other microbes or compete with them for resources . This means that they can be used to make a wide variety of different products , such as food and pharmaceuticals . In order to produce these products , bacteria must carry out a range of different metabolic processes . The products of these processes can sometimes be toxic to the bacteria themselves , and so they must be carefully controlled to avoid the bacteria producing too many of these toxic products . The bacteria can deal with these toxic products in a variety of different ways , such as by releasing them into the environment or by breaking them down . However , it is not clear whether all bacteria deal with these toxic products in the same way , or whether some bacteria specialize in producing certain products . Rosenthal et al . have now used a technique called fluorescence microscopy to study bacteria growing in a laboratory . The bacteria were genetically engineered to produce fluorescent molecules that indicate when a particular metabolic process was occurring . The experiments showed that the bacteria were able to switch between different metabolic states , and that some of these states were associated with the production of different metabolic products . This is important because it suggests that bacteria may be able to adapt to different environments by specializing in particular metabolic processes . This could help to improve the efficiency of industrial production processes that rely on bacteria .
Every cell has two copies of its DNA , which are separated by a replication fork . The fork is made up of two ‘leading strands’ that are copied in opposite directions , and is held together by a structure called the replisome . When DNA replication is blocked , the replisome becomes stuck and the cell cannot complete the replication process . DNA can be damaged by various factors , including breaks and mutations , which can result in the fork becoming stuck . To overcome this problem , cells can use a process called homologous recombination . This involves the damaged DNA being copied and then replaced with a copy from a healthy DNA molecule . Homologous recombination is important for the repair of DNA damage , and it can also help to prevent genetic mutations that can lead to diseases . However , it is not clear how cells initiate homologous recombination in the case of a blocked replication fork . Nguyen et al . have now used a technique called time-lapse microscopy to study how cells repair DNA damage in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe . The experiments show that a protein called Rad52 is required to initiate homologous recombination . Rad52 is part of a group of proteins that are important for homologous recombination , and is also involved in repairing DNA damage . The experiments also show that homologous recombination is initiated within 10–60 minutes of the DNA damage occurring . This is faster than the time it takes for the cell to repair DNA damage using homologous recombination in other organisms . This suggests that homologous recombination is a fast and efficient way for cells to repair DNA damage . However , it is also possible that homologous recombination can cause genetic mutations . Therefore , further research is needed to understand how homologous recombination affects the genetic material of cells .
Chromosomes are the physical structures that hold the genetic information of cells . In meiosis , which is the process by which sex cells are produced , chromosomes pair up and exchange genetic information . This exchange is known as recombination . Recombination can occur in two ways: either through a process called crossing over , or through a process called non-crossover ( or NCO ) . Crossing over occurs when a segment of DNA is copied and then swapped between two homologous chromosomes . Non-crossover events occur when the DNA is copied but not swapped between the two homologous chromosomes . Recombination is important for shaping the genetic diversity of a population , as it allows genetic information to be shared between individuals . A recent study found that non-crossover events occur in mammals at a frequency of about 1 in 200 . However , it is not clear how frequently non-crossover events occur in humans . Williams et al . analyzed data from 34 Mexican-American families and found that non-crossover events occur at a frequency of about 1 in 100 . The study also found that non-crossover events are more frequent in areas where crossing over events also occur . The findings suggest that non-crossover events are important in shaping the genetic diversity of humans and other mammals .
The DNA in our cells contains a vast number of genetic instructions that are stored in the form of four nucleotide bases—adenine, guanine, cytosine, and thymine—which are linked together in long chains to form a double helix . When DNA is damaged , the cells have to repair the damage by removing the damaged section and replacing it with a new copy of the correct sequence . DNA repair is a complex process that involves several proteins working together to remove the damaged section and then repair the gap . The XRCC4 and XLF proteins are two of these proteins that work together to repair DNA damage . XRCC4 and XLF form filaments that can bind to the damaged section of DNA and then use these filaments to repair the damage . These filaments are stabilized by the disordered C-terminal tails of XRCC4 and XLF . These tails also help XRCC4 and XLF to interact with one another . However , it was not clear how important the disordered tails are for DNA repair . The researchers used biochemical and cell-based experiments to investigate how the disordered tails of XRCC4 and XLF affect DNA repair . The results showed that the disordered tails of XRCC4 and XLF are important for the proteins to bind to DNA and interact with each other . These tails also help XRCC4 and XLF to repair DNA damage . When the disordered tails were removed , the ability of XRCC4 and XLF to repair DNA damage was impaired . The results suggest that the disordered tails of XRCC4 and XLF are important for DNA repair , and that the proteins need to interact with one another to repair DNA damage . The findings of the research could help to develop new drugs that target the XRCC4 and XLF proteins . This could help to treat cancer and other diseases caused by DNA damage .
The p21 protein is a key player in the process of copying DNA in cells . It is produced when DNA is damaged , and it helps to stop the cell from dividing until the DNA has been repaired . The p21 protein is also important in cancer , as it helps to prevent cells from dividing when they are damaged . Here , Soria et al . show that p21 can also stop the cell from dividing when DNA is not damaged . This is known as ‘unperturbed DNA replication’ . The p21 protein is present in every cell and it is able to interact with a protein called PCNA . PCNA is present at the ends of DNA strands and helps to load DNA polymerases onto the ends of DNA strands . In cancer cells , the p21 protein is often not present or it is degraded . This allows the cell to divide even if DNA replication is not working properly . Soria et al . show that in cancer cells , p21 is not present or is degraded , which leads to a breakdown of DNA replication . This causes the DNA to be copied incorrectly , which can lead to the development of cancer . Soria et al . also show that in normal cells , the p21 protein helps to stop DNA replication when it is not damaged . This is important to prevent cancer cells from dividing . The next step is to understand how p21 helps to prevent DNA replication when DNA is not damaged . This will help to develop new treatments for cancer .
Parkinson's disease is a condition that affects the brain and leads to tremors, stiffness, and difficulty walking. It is caused by the loss of brain cells, and the main cause of Parkinson's disease is currently unknown. However, some cases of Parkinson's disease are caused by mutations in a gene called PINK1. PINK1 is an enzyme that helps the brain cells to produce energy, and the mutations in the PINK1 gene can prevent this process, leading to the loss of brain cells. The PINK1 gene has been studied extensively in the fruit fly, but not in humans. Now, Kumar et al . have used X-ray crystallography to study the structure of PINK1 in the fruit fly, and found that it is very different from the human version of the gene. The structure of PINK1 revealed new details about how the enzyme works and how it recognizes its targets. The findings of this study could help researchers develop new treatments for Parkinson's disease.
Dengue fever is a common and potentially deadly disease that affects millions of people worldwide . It is caused by a virus that is transmitted by mosquitoes . In severe cases , the virus can cause blood vessels to leak , which can cause bleeding and even death . In some cases , the virus can cause a severe form of the disease known as dengue hemorrhagic fever . In this form of the disease , the blood vessels become overactive and leaky . This can cause bleeding into the skin and into the organs of the body . It is not yet known what causes the blood vessels to become overactive and leaky in dengue hemorrhagic fever . Now , St John et al . have found that a type of immune cell called a mast cell is involved in the development of dengue hemorrhagic fever . Mast cells are involved in the immune system and are known to be important in the body’s response to infection . When a mast cell detects a pathogen , it can release many chemicals that can cause inflammation . Mast cells also produce a chemical called chymase . This chemical can activate other immune cells that cause blood vessels to leak . St John et al . found that mice lacking mast cells did not develop dengue hemorrhagic fever . When mice were given a drug that blocked mast cells from releasing their chemicals , the mice did not develop dengue hemorrhagic fever . This suggests that drugs that target mast cells could be used to treat the disease . In addition , St John et al . found that the levels of chymase in the blood of people who have dengue hemorrhagic fever are higher than in those with dengue fever alone . This suggests that chymase could be a useful biomarker for predicting the severity of the disease . Future research is needed to understand how mast cells contribute to dengue fever and to develop new treatments for the disease .
Alexander disease is a rare and fatal neurological condition that is caused by mutations in the gene for glial fibrillary acidic protein ( GFAP ) . This protein is present in the astrocytes of the brain , which are the cells that support the neurons . In Alexander disease , the mutated GFAP proteins accumulate and form structures called Rosenthal fibers . These fibers are thought to cause the neurons to die . Alexander disease is usually diagnosed in children and is usually fatal by the age of 25 years . Battaglia et al . have now identified a protein called caspase-6 that is involved in the accumulation of mutated GFAP in Alexander disease . This protein is produced in response to stress , and is found in high levels in the fibers in people who died very young . Battaglia et al . also created a cell-based model of Alexander disease using cells that were derived from patients . This allowed them to show that mutated GFAP proteins accumulate in the fibers because of a process called phosphorylation , which is a way of adding chemical tags to proteins . This process is also involved in the production of caspase-6 . The next step is to find out whether the high levels of caspase-6 in Alexander disease fibers are the cause of the disease , or if they are a consequence of it .
Mosquitoes are responsible for spreading many deadly diseases such as malaria , dengue , and Zika . In order to prevent these diseases from spreading , it is important to track the distribution of mosquitoes . This is difficult because they are small and hard to see , and there are no cost-effective methods for tracking their distribution . Now , Kumar et al . have developed a new way to track mosquitoes . It uses mobile phones . People can use their phones to record the sound of mosquitoes in flight . The sound produced by mosquitoes is very distinctive , and can be used to identify the species of mosquito . Kumar et al . tested this method on 20 species of mosquitoes . The results showed that mobile phones could be used to track the distribution of mosquitoes in the field . The phones can also be used to track the distribution of mosquitoes in real time . The work of Kumar et al . has the potential to help control the spread of mosquito-borne diseases .
Answer: The main function of the immune system is to protect the body from disease.
The brain is remarkable for its ability to adapt to changing circumstances . For example , if a person loses a hand , the brain can reorganise to take over the lost hand’s territory and assign it to other parts of the brain . This process is thought to be driven by the loss of input from the hand , which is normally received by the brain . However , this process is not well understood . Now , Kikkert et al . have used a technique called functional MRI to study the brain’s response to the loss of a hand in two people who lost their left hand many years ago . This revealed that the brain’s representation of the missing hand persisted even after decades . The findings suggest that the brain does not completely reorganize in response to loss of input , but instead preserves the original function of the territory . This may provide new insights into how the brain works , and could help to develop new technologies that allow people with disabilities to control prosthetic limbs directly using their own brain signals .
The alternative splicing of genes allows cells to make different versions of proteins from the same gene . This process can change the properties of the proteins that are produced and is important for cells to function correctly . In many cases , the alternative splicing of genes is regulated by proteins called splicing factors . These proteins bind to specific sequences in the DNA that are known as splicing sites and help to guide the splicing process . In mammals , alternative splicing is an important mechanism for cells to make different versions of proteins that are needed for growth and development . However , the regulation of alternative splicing is not fully understood and how it affects the function of cells is not clear . To investigate the role of alternative splicing in mammals , Bebee et al . created mice that were missing two proteins called Esrp1 and Esrp2 . The mice lacked these proteins because they had a mutation in the genes that code for them . The mutation caused the mice to develop cleft lip and palate . Bebee et al . also observed that the mice had defects in their skin , including a thin skin and fewer hair follicles . This suggested that alternative splicing is important for the development of the skin and hair follicles . Further experiments showed that the mice lacking the Esprp1 and Esprp2 proteins had altered splicing patterns in the skin , which likely contributed to the developmental defects . This study reveals that alternative splicing is important for the development of mammals and that the Esprp1 and Esprp2 proteins are critical regulators of alternative splicing in mammals .
Obesity is a major health problem that can lead to a variety of serious health problems, including diabetes, heart disease, and stroke. Obesity is caused by overeating and not burning enough calories. The main cause of obesity is poor dietary habits and lack of exercise. However , there are currently no effective treatments for obesity and the ones that are available have side effects . Lipocalin-2 ( LCN2 ) is a protein found in mice and humans . LCN2 is known to suppress appetite and body weight in mice . Petropoulou et al . investigated whether LCN2 could also help reduce appetite and body weight in humans . The experiments showed that LCN2 levels increased after a meal in healthy humans . However , the increase in LCN2 levels was not seen in humans with obesity . This suggests that obesity may be associated with a decrease in the ability of LCN2 to suppress appetite and body weight . Further studies are needed to determine whether LCN2 is an effective treatment for obesity in humans .
Mice use their whiskers to find their way around , and scientists have long been interested in how this works . The whiskers of mice are made of sensory nerve cells that are sensitive to the texture of the environment . The whiskers are connected to the brain , which uses the information they send to help the mouse navigate . Scientists have known for a while that the whiskers are used to find the distance to objects in the environment , but they did not know how the brain processes this information . To find out , Sofroniew , Van der Loos et al . used a virtual reality system to simulate the contact between the mouse's whiskers and walls . The mouse was placed in a corridor with walls that could be moved in and out of reach of the mouse , and its whiskers were recorded using electrodes . The virtual reality system allowed the scientists to study how the mouse used its whiskers to navigate through the corridor . The experiments showed that the mouse's brain uses the information from the whiskers to find the distance to the walls , and that the brain processes this information in a way that is similar to how it processes information about the distance to objects . The findings reveal how the brain processes information about the environment , and suggest that the brain can use similar mechanisms to navigate through other environments .
The immune system is responsible for protecting the body from infections and diseases . The immune system is made up of different types of cells , including cells that attack the body and cells that protect the body . An autoimmune disease is a condition where the immune system attacks healthy tissues . There are many autoimmune diseases , including arthritis and multiple sclerosis . Treatments for autoimmune diseases often involve drugs that suppress the immune system . However , these treatments can make it harder for the immune system to fight infections . McPherson et al . investigated how a therapy called peptide immunotherapy can treat autoimmune diseases . Peptide immunotherapy uses small pieces of protein to treat autoimmune diseases . McPherson et al . tested this therapy on mice that had multiple sclerosis . The mice were treated with a peptide that was derived from a protein called myelin basic protein . This peptide was administered to the mice via a needle in their skin . The mice were then given a disease that mimics multiple sclerosis . The mice that received the peptide were protected from developing the disease . The peptide therapy also prevented the mice from producing an immune response that causes inflammation in the brain . This immune response was caused by a type of immune cell called a T cell . The peptide therapy also prevented the T cells from producing a protein called PD-1 , which is important for the immune response . The peptide therapy also caused the T cells to lose their ability to produce other proteins that help them to attack the body . This therapy could potentially be used to treat autoimmune diseases in humans .
The main focus of the study is to challenge the idea that hunter-gatherers' diet during the Palaeolithic and Mesolithic periods primarily consisted of animal proteins. The study provides evidence of wild cereal grains being consumed by foragers in central Balkans 1,500 years ago. This discovery challenges the idea that the diet of hunter-gatherers during the Palaeolithic and Mesolithic periods primarily consisted of animal proteins.
Cancer is a disease in which a cell grows out of control and damages the surrounding tissues . It is caused by genetic changes that occur in a cell , such as mutations in the DNA . However , not all genetic changes cause cancer . Ni and Kuperwasser have discovered that human breast cancer cells contain a protein called MAGI3 . MAGI3 is involved in the development of breast tissue and is also involved in the growth of breast cancer cells . However , MAGI3 is not frequently altered in breast cancer . Ni and Kuperwasser have now discovered that MAGI3 is frequently altered in breast cancer by a mechanism called premature polyadenylation . This mechanism is not well understood . Ni and Kuperwasser have also identified a protein called YAP that is involved in the growth of breast cancer cells . The YAP protein is produced in a normal amount in breast tissue . However , when MAGI3 is altered in breast cancer , YAP is produced in higher amounts . Ni and Kuperwasser have now shown that the shortened form of MAGI3 causes breast cancer cells to grow faster . This suggests that the shortened form of MAGI3 is a driver of breast cancer . The next step is to understand how the shortened form of MAGI3 contributes to the growth of breast cancer cells . Further research is needed to understand how MAGI3 and YAP interact in breast cancer cells . This information could lead to new ways to treat breast cancer .
The ability of animals to recognize and respond to their prey is an essential aspect of survival in the wild . In many species , including zebrafish larvae , prey capture is triggered by a visual signal that is detected by cells in the retina . These cells are called retinal ganglion cells , or RGCs , and are found in the back of the eye . But the brain area that processes these signals and triggers the behavior of prey capture is not known . Here , Semmelhack et al . have used zebrafish larvae to identify the brain area that is responsible for triggering prey capture behavior . The experiments show that RGCs that project to a specific area of the brain , called the pretectum , are responsible for triggering the behavior . The experiments also show that the prey capture circuitry is parallel to other circuits that control swimming behavior , and that these two circuits interact to produce the behavior . Understanding how animals recognize and respond to their prey is an important area of research , and the results of this study could help to develop new treatments for diseases that affect the eye , such as cataracts or glaucoma .
A single organism is made up of many different cells that work together to carry out the tasks needed to keep the organism alive . In multicellular organisms , cells are specialized to carry out specific tasks . For example , some cells are responsible for making food , while others are responsible for moving around and protecting the organism from predators . In social insects such as ants and bees , cells are specialized to perform different roles . For example , some cells are responsible for foraging for food , while others are responsible for taking care of the young . This means that ants and bees have many different types of cells in their colonies . But how do they divide their labor among their cells ? Ants and bees are social insects that have developed a form of social circulatory system to share resources with each other . In this system , cells in the colony share nutrients with each other , and they also share proteins . Some of these proteins are produced by the ants and bees , while others are produced by the proteins that the ants and bees have in their bodies . In this study , LeBoeuf et al . used a technique called mass spectrometry to measure the proteins present in the trophallactic fluid of carpenter ants . This is the fluid that ants share with each other when they take food or care for their young . The results showed that the proteins present in the trophallactic fluid varied depending on the age of the colony and the type of task that the ants were performing . For example , proteins involved in the production of sugar were present in the trophallactic fluid of ants that were foraging for food , but not in the trophallactic fluid of ants that were taking care of their young . This suggests that the trophallactic fluid is involved in the social physiology of the colony , and that it may be used to control the life cycle of the colony . This is an important finding because it suggests that social insects such as ants and bees have evolved ways to share resources with each other , which helps them to survive in environments where they would otherwise be unable to survive .
Proteins are the building blocks of life and their structures are responsible for the activity of the enzymes that perform many biological functions . Proteins are made up of a chain of amino acids that fold into a three-dimensional structure , with the amino acids interacting with each other to form a long chain . A protein's structure is determined by the sequence of amino acids , and it can change in response to external factors such as temperature . This means that proteins are not always fixed in their structure and can change in response to external factors . However , the traditional methods used to determine the structure of proteins do not take into account these changes . Now , a new method called ensemble refinement has been developed to help understand how proteins change in response to external factors . This method uses a combination of experimental data from the crystallographic technique and a molecular dynamics simulation to create a collection of possible structures that the protein could adopt . This collection of structures is then used to refine the original structure . The new method was tested on 20 different proteins , with each structure having a resolution of up to 1 . 6 Å . The results showed that the new method provided more detailed information about the structure of the proteins than traditional methods . This included the presence of ‘molten cores’ , which are regions of the protein that are not fixed in their structure . The method also revealed the details of order-disorder transitions in proteins , which are changes in the structure of a protein as it binds to a ligand . This can be important for the activity of enzymes that are involved in many biological processes . In the future , ensemble refinement could be used to study the structure of proteins in a wide range of different conditions , including the presence of drugs and other ligands .
Holoprosencephaly is a condition where the brain and face of a fetus do not develop properly . It is the most common developmental defect in humans and occurs in about one in 250 pregnancies . There are several genes that can lead to holoprosencephaly , but it is not known why these mutations sometimes lead to the condition and not others . In addition , it is not known how the environment can influence the development of the brain and face . To answer these questions , scientists have studied mice with mutations in a gene called Cdon . Mice with mutations in Cdon have abnormalities similar to those seen in humans with holoprosencephaly . However , mice with mutations in Cdon do not develop holoprosencephaly when they are not exposed to alcohol in the womb . However , if a pregnant mouse is given alcohol , the mouse with a mutation in Cdon will develop holoprosencephaly . This suggests that alcohol can influence the development of the brain and face . To understand how this occurs , scientists have now examined how alcohol affects the signaling pathways that control the development of the brain and face . These pathways are complex networks of molecules that work together to control the development of the brain and face . The results show that alcohol inhibits a pathway called the Nodal pathway , which is required for the development of the brain and face . The findings suggest that environmental factors , such as alcohol , can contribute to birth defects in humans . These findings shed light on how environmental factors can contribute to birth defects and provide a framework for understanding how environmental factors contribute to other developmental disorders .
Our brain has a remarkable ability to predict and respond to upcoming changes in water levels . For example , when we drink water , the brain quickly reduces the amount of water in the body by releasing a hormone called vasopressin . This hormone helps regulate the amount of water in the body . The brain also has a network of nerve cells that detects water levels and responds to them . These nerve cells are called vasopressin neurons . These neurons are found in a region of the brain called the hypothalamus . Vasopressin neurons are known to be involved in controlling the amount of water in the body , but the exact mechanisms that trigger their release are not well understood . Now , Kim et al . have identified a network of nerve cells that respond to changes in water levels and control the release of vasopressin . The network consists of nerve cells in a region of the hypothalamus called the lateral hypothalamic tract . These nerve cells are connected to vasopressin neurons in a way that allows them to trigger the release of vasopressin . Kim et al . also identified a separate network of nerve cells in a region of the brain called the arcuate nucleus that respond to food intake and stimulate the release of vasopressin . These nerve cells are distinct from the network of nerve cells that respond to water levels and control the release of vasopressin . The findings reveal that the brain has a remarkable ability to predict and respond to upcoming changes in water levels and that the release of vasopressin is regulated by two separate networks of nerve cells .
Humans have been leaving their footprints on the ground for thousands of years. These traces provide a record of how they lived and how they evolved. The oldest known human footprints date back to around 14,000 years ago. They were left by two adults, an adolescent, and two children who were barefoot and wearing no clothes on their arms and legs. They had explored a cave in Italy called the ‘Grotta della Bàsura’. The cave was too small for the humans to stand up in and they had to crawl through it. The cave was sealed by a layer of sediment that was so hard that it preserved the footprints of the humans. The footprints were only discovered in 2016, when scientists used a technique called radiocarbon dating to determine how old they were. The scientists also used a technique called 3D scanning to create a 3D map of the cave and the footprints. This allowed them to see the footprints in more detail than ever before. The footprints were left on a layer of sediment that was formed from the dripping of water on the cave floor. The sediment was so hard that it preserved the footprints of the humans. The scientists were able to measure the size of the footprints and use this information to determine the age of the humans and the gender of the two individuals that left them. The two adults were both male and the two children were both female. The scientists also identified a new way that humans explored caves in the past. The adults and children left the footprints on a lower layer of sediment and then climbed up to a higher layer of sediment. This suggests that the cave was too narrow to stand up in, so they had to crawl through it. The cave was also very dangerous and the humans had to be very careful to avoid falling. The footprints are now the oldest record of humans crawling through a cave.
The brain is made up of billions of nerve cells called neurons that communicate with each other through electrical signals . This communication allows us to learn new skills and remember past events . The fruit fly larva is a popular model for studying how animals learn because it has a relatively small number of neurons and is easy to manipulate . In the larva , a chemical called carbon dioxide is a signal that tells the brain to avoid it . By using light to activate a specific type of neuron in the larva’s brain , it is possible to make the larva associate carbon dioxide with an electrical signal . This allows the larva to learn to avoid the carbon dioxide . But how do larvae learn to associate carbon dioxide with an electrical signal ? Answer: Larvae learn to associate carbon dioxide with an electrical signal in a single jump , or “lightbulb moment” .
Bats are able to find their way around by using their ears to send out high-frequency sounds and listen to the returning echoes. This process is known as echolocation. The main function of bats' ears is to echolocate. How do bats use their ears to navigate? They send out high-frequency sounds and listen to the returning echoes to find their way around. How do bats use their ears to navigate? Bats use their ears to send out high-frequency sounds and listen to the returning echoes to find their way around. In this way, bats can build a mental map of their surroundings. Bats use their ears to navigate by listening to the returning echoes from the sounds they send out. This is known as echolocation. The main function of bats' ears is to echolocate. Bats use their ears to navigate by listening to the returning echoes from the sounds they send out. How does echolocation provide less information than vision? Echolocation provides much less information than vision because it only captures echoes, not images. Echolocation provides much less information than vision because it only captures echoes, not images. Echolocation is a way of navigating through sound, whereas vision is a way of navigating through light. How does echolocation provide less information than vision? Echolocation provides much less information than vision because it only captures echoes, not images. Echolocation provides much less information than vision because it only captures echoes, not images. Echolocation is a way of navigating through sound, whereas vision is a way of navigating through light. Bats use their ears to send out high-frequency sounds and listen to the returning echoes to find their way around. How does echolocation provide less information than vision? Echolocation provides much less information than vision because it only captures echoes, not images. Echolocation provides much less information than vision because it only captures echoes, not images. Echolocation is a way of navigating through sound, whereas vision is a way of navigating through light. How does echolocation provide less information than vision? Echolocation provides much less information than vision because it only captures echoes, not images. Echolocation provides much less information than vision because it only captures echoes, not images. Echolocation is a way of navigating through sound, whereas vision is a way of navigating through light. What could future work on bat navigation help us with? Future work on bat navigation could help us build robots that can navigate using similar tactics. What could future work on bat navigation help us with? Future work on bat navigation could help us build robots that can navigate using similar tactics.
Bacteria have a membrane that surrounds their cell . It is made up of a double layer of fatty molecules called lipids and a protein called Sec . This protein is responsible for transporting proteins across the membrane . Sec is a complex system that can be divided into two parts: a membrane protein called SecYEG , and an enzyme called SecA . The SecYEG protein is embedded in the membrane , while SecA is free to move around . The SecYEG protein acts like a gate that opens and closes to allow proteins to pass through . The SecA enzyme is responsible for breaking down ATP , which is then used to open the gate . SecA is activated by the binding of ATP to its active site , which is located on the surface of the SecYEG protein . The SecYEG protein is made up of ten protein subunits , and the SecA enzyme is made up of one protein subunit . The SecYEG and SecA proteins are now being studied to understand how they work together to transport proteins across the membrane . This research could be used to develop new drugs that target only bacterial cells .
The nervous system is responsible for processing information and coordinating the actions of the body . In many species , including humans , the nervous system develops differently in males and females . This means that the sexes have distinct ways of processing information and responding to the environment . For example , males tend to be more aggressive and have larger brains than females . The reason why this happens is not clear . In the nematode worm Caenorhabditis elegans , the nervous system develops differently in males and females , but the reason why is also unknown . Ecsedi et al . investigated how the nervous system of C. elegans develops differently in males and females . This involved creating a worm with a genetic mutation that prevented the worm from developing a sexually dimorphic nervous system . The mutant worms had a larger nervous system than normal worms and more neurons . In addition , the mutants had a sexually dimorphic nervous system , with different neurons in males and females . Ecsedi et al . identified several genes that are involved in controlling the development of the nervous system in C. elegans . These genes are also involved in controlling the development of the nervous system in other species . In particular , the genes are involved in a process called puberty , which is the time when the body starts to produce hormones and the sexes develop in a more adult-like way . Ecsedi et al . also identified a protein called lin-29 that is responsible for the sexual dimorphic development of the nervous system . Lin-29 is a protein that is present in both males and females , but it is expressed in different ways in the two sexes . This suggests that the development of the nervous system is controlled by a system that includes genes that are expressed in all cells of the body , and genes that are expressed in a sexually dimorphic manner . Further studies are needed to understand how this system works in other species .
Answer: The main function of reproductive cells is to carry genetic information to the next generation.
It is not clear whether the hormone estrogen plays a role in supporting fertilization and early embryo development in the oviduct ( fallopian tube ) of female mammals . To find out , the researchers studied mice that lacked a protein called estrogen receptor alpha ( ERα ) in the oviduct . The mice were able to fertilize their eggs normally , but most of the eggs died before they developed into embryos . The researchers also found that the mice had altered levels of proteases and protease inhibitors in their oviducts . Proteases are enzymes that can break down proteins . Protease inhibitors are molecules that stop proteases from working . The researchers found that the mice with reduced levels of protease inhibitors had increased levels of proteases in their oviducts . This increased protease activity likely caused the eggs to die before they developed into embryos . The researchers propose that estrogen-mediated signaling in the oviduct is important for regulating the oviduct and supporting fertilization and early embryo development . This finding could help to improve our understanding of fertilization and pregnancy in humans .
Granulosa cells are cells that support the growth of developing ovarian follicles . They are involved in the production of a hormone called estrogen , which is also required for the development of the ovaries . The gene FOXL2 is essential for the proper function of granulosa cells , but the role of FOXL2 in the ovaries has remained largely unknown . Now , Georges et al . have used a technique called RNA sequencing to analyze the role of FOXL2 in granulosa cells . This approach allowed the researchers to identify more than 1 , 000 genes that are either activated or repressed by FOXL2 . The experiments showed that FOXL2 regulates the activity of several genes that are important for the development of the ovaries , including genes involved in estrogen production and the signaling pathways that are triggered by estrogen . The experiments also showed that FOXL2 is required for the production of estrogen and for the proper function of estrogen receptors . These results suggest that FOXL2 is essential for the proper function of the ovaries and that it helps to maintain the identity of granulosa cells . Furthermore , they suggest that FOXL2 may play a role in the development of ovarian tumors .
The scent of a female mouse can trigger a male mouse to begin mating . This pheromone is detected by a part of the brain called the vomeronasal organ . Pheromones are chemical signals that can tell an animal when a suitable mate is near and trigger the release of hormones that induce mating . Pheromones can trigger different behaviors depending on the species and the context . For example , a female mouse will release a pheromone that tells a male mouse to mate when she is ready to reproduce . The pheromone is produced by a gland near the ovaries . When the female mouse is ready to mate , the pheromone is present in her urine . In contrast , a female mouse will also release a pheromone that tells the male mouse that she is not ready to mate . This pheromone is produced by a gland near the ovaries . When a female mouse is ready to mate , the pheromone is present in her urine . The male mouse is not able to tell the difference between the two pheromones . He responds to both the pheromone produced by the ovaries and the pheromone produced by the gland near the ovaries . This means that the male mouse is able to detect when a female is ready to mate and when she is not ready to mate . However , it is not clear which pheromones the vomeronasal organ detects . Ma et al . set out to identify the pheromones that trigger mating behaviors in male mice . Ma et al . used a technique called optical imaging to identify the pheromones that the vomeronasal organ detects . This technique allows researchers to see how the pheromones are released by the vomeronasal organ . Ma et al . found that the vomeronasal organ responds to two pheromones: one produced by the ovaries and one produced by the gland near the ovaries . The two pheromones trigger different behaviors . The pheromone produced by the ovaries induces a mating behavior in male mice . The pheromone produced by the gland near the ovaries prevents the male mice from mating . The pheromone produced by the gland near the ovaries is released in the urine of a female mouse that is not ready to mate . The pheromone produced by the ovaries is present in the urine of a female mouse that is ready to mate . This pheromone is also present in the urine of a female mouse that is not ready to mate . The pheromone produced by the gland near the ovaries is not present in the urine of a female mouse that is not ready to mate . The pheromones that trigger mating behaviors in male mice are produced by the ovaries and the gland near the ovaries . The next challenge for Ma et al . is to identify the pathways of nerve cells that integrate the information about pheromones and trigger the courtship behaviors .
Cells are made up of many different types of molecules that work together to carry out different functions. For example , some molecules can bind to DNA to switch genes on or off . These molecules are called transcription factors . A transcription factor can bind to many different DNA sequences , but the sequence that it binds to is determined by the sequence of the transcription factor molecule itself . Morgunova et al . wanted to understand how transcription factors bind to DNA . To do this , Morgunova et al . studied how transcription factors bind to DNA . Morgunova et al . found that some transcription factors can bind to two different DNA sequences at once . The two DNA sequences that the transcription factors bind to are close to each other in DNA sequence . This is unusual because most transcription factors only bind to one DNA sequence . Morgunova et al . showed that the two DNA sequences that the transcription factors bind to are both optimal , meaning that they are the best possible DNA sequences for the transcription factors to bind to . The DNA sequences are optimal because they are close to each other in DNA sequence space . Morgunova et al . also showed that the two DNA sequences are optimal because they have different properties . One DNA sequence has a higher enthalpy , which is the energy that is released when a transcription factor binds to it , whereas the other DNA sequence has a lower enthalpy . The enthalpy of binding is the amount of energy that a transcription factor needs to bind to a DNA sequence . The lower enthalpy of the other DNA sequence is due to the presence of water molecules that bridge the gap between the transcription factor and the DNA . This makes it easier for the transcription factor to bind to the DNA . In addition , the DNA sequence with a lower enthalpy also has a lower entropy . Entropy is the disorder of a molecule . The DNA sequence with a lower entropy is more stable than the DNA sequence with a higher enthalpy . This is because it has a lower number of water molecules that bridge the gap between the transcription factor and the DNA . Morgunova et al . also found that transcription factors with two optimal DNA sequences are widespread in nature . This suggests that transcription factors can bind to two different DNA sequences at the same time . In the future , this could help scientists to develop new treatments that depend on molecules being able to bind to other molecules . For example , drugs could be designed to bind to two different sites on a protein to activate or inhibit it .
Bacteria use flagella to move around and cause disease . Flagella are long whip-like appendages that are made of a protein called flagellin . Bacteria use flagellin to form a flexible rod called a flagellum that they can use to swim and cause disease . The flagellum is made by a protein called FliD , which is found at the tip of the flagellum . FliD is a large protein that is made of several smaller units called subunits . The subunits are held together by a protein called FliC , which is also found at the tip of the flagellum . Understanding how FliD and FliC work together is important because it could help scientists develop new drugs that stop bacteria from swimming and causing disease . Postel et al . have now determined the structure of FliD from Pseudomonas aeruginosa , a type of bacteria that can cause infections in people . This is the first time that the structure of FliD has been determined at this level of detail . Postel et al . found that FliD is made of six subunits that are held together by a protein called FliC . This is similar to the structure of FliD from other bacteria , including Salmonella . Postel et al . also found that the flexible regions of FliD are important for its function . These regions help to control how FliD forms the cap at the tip of the flagellum . This suggests that the flexible regions of FliD could be targeted by drugs to prevent bacteria from swimming and causing disease . Further studies are needed to understand how the flexible regions of FliD control the formation of the flagellum .
