Learning to perform a movement sequence is a fundamental task for humans and animals . The cerebellum , a part of the brain that controls movement , has been shown to play a role in learning sequences of movements . However , it is not known whether the cerebellum can use feedback signals from a movement to learn the next movement in the sequence . To investigate this , Kalmbach et al . trained rabbits to blink their eye in response to an initial cue , and then blink again in response to the first blink . The experiments showed that the rabbits could learn to use feedback signals from the first blink to predictively blink their eye in response to a second cue . The experiments also showed that the same cerebellar neurons were active in both the first and second blink . The findings suggest that the cerebellum can use feedback signals from a movement to learn the next movement in a sequence . Further experiments are needed to determine the extent to which the cerebellum can use feedback signals to learn sequences of movements in the brain .
Living cells need to consider several factors to grow and multiply. One of these factors is the amount of energy available to the cell and the amount of nutrients present in the environment. When the cell has sufficient energy and nutrients, it can grow and multiply. However, when these resources are limited, the cell can enter a state called dormancy or senescence, where it stops growing and reproducing. In this state, the cell is protected from further damage or death. In cancer, the cell can become addicted to growth and multiplication, which can lead to the formation of tumors. This process is regulated by a protein called mTOR. The mTOR protein is activated when the cell has sufficient energy and nutrients, and it can activate other proteins that help the cell to grow and multiply. However, when the cell is not growing or dividing, mTOR is inactive. In cancer, the mTOR protein is often overactive, which can lead to the formation of tumors. This is because cancer cells have a lot of energy and nutrients, which allows them to grow and multiply rapidly. In this study, the researchers wanted to understand how the mTOR protein works and how it is involved in cancer. The researchers were able to visualize the mTOR protein in its two forms, called mTORC1 and mTORC2, and they found that the two forms work in different ways. The mTORC1 protein has a different shape and interacts with other proteins in a different way than the mTORC2 protein. This means that the two forms of the mTOR protein have different functions and respond to different stimuli. This new information could help researchers to develop drugs that target mTORC2 and stop the growth of cancer cells.
Our perception of space and number are closely related. For example, we often think of numbers on a mental number line where smaller numbers are mapped to the left, and larger numbers are mapped to the right. This mental number line is thought to be the result of the way that our brain processes both space and number. This processing is thought to be similar in all humans, which is why we can easily compare numbers with each other across cultures and languages. However , there is evidence that the way that our brain processes space and number is not the same as it is in other animals . For example , some animals can represent large numbers without a mental number line . This suggests that the way that the brain processes space and number may have evolved independently in different species . To test this idea , Schwiedrzik et al . studied the brain activity of people watching a screen with dots moving in different directions . When the dots moved leftward , the people thought that there were more dots than when they moved rightward . This suggests that the brain adapts its way of processing number to the direction in which the dots are moving . This is similar to how our brain adapts its way of processing space to the direction in which we are moving . This shows that the brain processes space and number differently , but the two processes are related . This discovery could help us understand how our brain processes space and number and how this can be used to help people with mental disorders that affect number processing .
Cancer cells can grow uncontrollably and spread throughout the body if they are not stopped. Cancer cells grow by dividing rapidly . To divide , they need to produce new proteins and genetic material . Musashi-1 is a protein that helps cells to grow by controlling the production of genetic material . Cells need to produce proteins to divide , but they also need to produce enough genetic material to make new cells . Too much genetic material leads to the growth of cancer cells . Musashi-1 helps to control the production of genetic material , but it also helps to control the production of proteins . When cells need to produce new proteins to divide , Musashi-1 levels decrease . This prevents the cells from producing too much genetic material . However , the precise mechanism of how Musashi-1 controls the production of genetic material is not fully understood . Musashi-1 is a protein that is made from a single gene . It is produced in the brain , but it is also produced in other tissues , such as the skin , the heart , and the pancreas . In the brain , Musashi-1 is produced in cells called oligodendrocytes . These cells are responsible for producing the fatty membranes that cover nerve fibers . Oligodendrocytes need to produce enough genetic material to make new cells , but they also need to produce enough proteins to divide . Musashi-1 helps to control the balance between these two processes . When the levels of Musashi-1 are low , the oligodendrocytes produce more genetic material than they do proteins , which leads to the growth of the cells . However , when the levels of Musashi-1 are high , the cells produce more proteins than genetic material , which prevents the cells from dividing . Musashi-1 is also involved in the production of other proteins that are important for the growth of cancer cells . These proteins are called oncogenes . Musashi-1 is also involved in the production of other proteins that are important for the growth of cancer cells . In some cases , the production of these proteins is controlled by the levels of fatty acids . Fatty acids are molecules that are stored in the cells and are used to make new proteins . The levels of fatty acids in the cells are regulated by the production of enzymes that make them . When the levels of these enzymes are high , the production of fatty acids is also high . This means that the levels of oncogenes are also high . However , when the levels of fatty acids are low , the production of oncogenes is also low . This means that the production of new proteins and genetic material is reduced . In the study described in this paper , Clingman et al . investigated how Musashi-1 is regulated by fatty acids . Clingman et al . screened more than 30 , 000 compounds to find a compound that would switch off Musashi-1 . This compound was a fatty acid called oleic acid . Clingman et al . found that oleic acid binds to the protein and reduces the amount of genetic material that it produces . This is important because it prevents the cells from dividing . Clingman et al . also found that oleic acid binds to a specific part of Musashi-1 called RRM1 . This is a region of the protein that binds to genetic material . When oleic acid binds to RRM1 , it changes the shape of the protein . This prevents Musashi-1 from binding to genetic material . Clingman et al . also found that fatty acids can bind to a protein called stearoyl-CoA desaturase . This protein is involved in the production of fatty acids . When the levels of stearoyl-CoA desaturase are high , the production of fatty acids is also high . This means that the levels of Musashi-1 are also high . This suggests that Musashi-1 is involved in the production of fatty acids . Musashi-1 may also be involved in the production of other proteins that are important for the growth of cancer cells . Future studies will be needed to determine the role of Musashi-1 in the growth of cancer cells .
Neurons communicate with each other through chemical signals called neurotransmitters . These signals are released from tiny sacs called vesicles , which are stored in the nerve cell membrane . When an electrical signal reaches the nerve cell , the vesicles release neurotransmitters into the gap between the cells , where they bind to receptors on the receiving cell . The receptors then trigger a change in the electrical signal , which allows the nerve cell to transmit the signal further . The vesicles are then refilled by a process called replenishment . If this process is disrupted , the nerve cell will not be able to release neurotransmitters as efficiently . The vesicle replenishment process is regulated by a protein called CaM , which is a calcium ion sensor . However , the role of CaM in the replenishment process is not fully understood . Now , Dong et al . have identified a protein called syt7 as a calcium sensor that regulates the replenishment of vesicles in nerve cells . This finding suggests that CaM and syt7 work together to regulate the release of neurotransmitters from vesicles . Dong et al . also show that a drug that blocks the action of CaM can mimic the effects of disrupting syt7 and slow down the replenishment of vesicles in nerve cells . These findings could help scientists to develop drugs that target the calcium sensor and treat disorders that affect the nerve cells .
Anxiety is a common mental health disorder that can be triggered by stressful events or trauma . It is also a common symptom of many other mental health conditions , including depression and posttraumatic stress disorder ( PTSD ) . There are several treatments for anxiety , including medications that increase the levels of chemicals called prostaglandins in the brain . Prostaglandins are produced by an enzyme called cyclooxygenase-2 ( COX-2 ) . Some drugs that block COX-2 are used to treat pain and inflammation . However , these drugs can also have negative side effects , such as causing stomach ulcers . Researchers have now tested a new class of drugs that inhibit COX-2 but do not increase prostaglandin levels . The drugs are called selective COX-2 inhibitors ( SSCIs ) . The researchers tested these SSCIs in mice that had been subjected to foot-shock stress . The SSCIs reduced the animals’ anxiety-like behavior and also reduced the activity of cells in the brain that are involved in the processing of fear . The SSCIs were more effective than traditional COX-2 inhibitors . These results suggest that SSCIs could be useful in treating anxiety disorders . However , more work is needed to confirm this .
Living cells are surrounded by a membrane that acts like a protective barrier . The membrane also helps to control what passes into and out of the cell . The membrane is made of a double layer of phospholipid molecules . These molecules have a hydrophilic ( water-loving ) head and a hydrophobic ( water-fearing ) tail . This means that the head is more attracted to water , while the tail is more attracted to fatty molecules . The membrane also contains proteins that are embedded within the phospholipid layer . These proteins are called membrane proteins . Some membrane proteins are essential for the cell to survive . For example , some membrane proteins help to transport molecules into and out of the cell . Other membrane proteins are involved in the structure of the cell membrane . Membrane proteins are difficult to study because they are embedded within the membrane . This makes it difficult to study their structure and how they interact with the environment . Membrane proteins are often studied using a technique called detergent-based purification . Detergents are used to extract membrane proteins from the membrane . The proteins are then separated from the membrane and studied . However , the detergents can damage the proteins . This means that the proteins cannot be studied properly . There are several other ways to purify membrane proteins . One way is to use a detergent-free method called nanodiscs . Nanodiscs are made by combining a membrane protein with a scaffold protein that is designed to mimic the structure of the membrane . The scaffold proteins then form a detergent-free membrane that can be studied . Nanodiscs are difficult to make , however , and require a lot of work . A new method called the peptidisc is now available . The peptidisc is made by combining a membrane protein with a peptide that is designed to mimic the membrane . The peptide then forms a detergent-free membrane that can be studied . The peptidisc is made by mixing the membrane protein with the peptide . The membrane protein and the peptide are then separated from the detergent . The peptidisc can be used to study membrane proteins that are difficult to study using other methods . The peptidisc is also easy to make and can be re-used . The peptidisc could help to improve our understanding of membrane proteins . This could also help to develop new treatments for medical conditions .
Our cells rely on DNA molecules to make the proteins that they need to perform different tasks. DNA molecules are copied into RNA molecules, which then form the blueprints for the proteins that are produced in the cell. When a cell needs to make a protein, the RNA molecule is transcribed into a protein sequence. The RNA molecule is then translated into a protein sequence by a cellular machinery that reads the RNA sequence. Mistakes in the RNA sequence can lead to proteins that are not functional or proteins that are toxic to the cell. The RNA molecules in a cell are constantly being produced and transcribed from the DNA, so it is possible that a cell can have thousands of RNA molecules with mistakes. Li and Lynch used a new method called CirSeq to identify RNA molecules that contain mistakes in the DNA sequence. They applied this method to bacteria, and found that the RNA molecules in bacteria contain many mistakes. In fact, the number of mistakes in the RNA molecules was much higher than the number of genetic mutations in the DNA sequence. The mistakes in the RNA molecules were also found to be more common at the end of the RNA molecule than at the beginning or middle. This suggests that cells may contain many RNA molecules that are not functional, which may lead to problems for the cell.
The loss of a limb can have a devastating impact on a person's life . It can make it difficult to perform everyday tasks and can also result in phantom pain . People who have lost a hand may choose to use their intact hand instead , but this can lead to phantom pain . Alternatively , they may use their stump ( the limb that remains after the hand has been amputated ) to perform tasks . However , little is known about how the brain adapts to this change in limb usage . Now , Makin et al . have investigated this by scanning the brains of individuals who have lost a hand . The results show that the brain changes to accommodate the new limb usage , with the stump being used more in people who lost their hand through injury , and the intact hand being used more in those who were born without a hand . This suggests that the brain can adapt to changes in limb usage , even in adults . Further research could help to develop new treatments for individuals with limb loss .
Fish and some amphibians produce red blood cells in their liver or kidney. The bones of these animals also contain bone marrow that houses stem cells that produce blood cells . The bone marrow is protected by a cavity in the shaft of the bone . This cavity is surrounded by a dense network of blood vessels that supply the bone marrow with oxygen and nutrients . When animals evolved to live on land , the bone marrow moved to the bones to produce red blood cells . However , it is not clear whether this migration happened before or after the first vertebrates emerged from the water . Estefa et al . have now studied the bones of several early vertebrates that lived in the water . The fossil bones were imaged using X-rays , and Estefa et al . found that the bone marrow was protected by a cavity in the shaft of the bones . This cavity was surrounded by a network of blood vessels . However , unlike in fish and some amphibians , the cavity was not surrounded by a dense network of blood vessels . Instead , the bone marrow was protected by a dense network of tubular structures . Estefa et al . propose that the bone marrow moved to the bones of early vertebrates as they evolved to live on land . However , it is possible that the bone marrow did not move until later in the evolution of vertebrates . Estefa et al . also found that the bones of the early vertebrates were similar to those of modern fish and amphibians . This suggests that the bone marrow did not move until after the fish and amphibians had already evolved to live on land . Estefa et al . plan to study the bones of other early vertebrates to find out when the bone marrow moved to the bones .
Stress can cause a person to turn to alcohol . However , the connection between stress and alcohol use is complex , and not fully understood . In this study , Bloodgood et al . used mice to investigate how stress and alcohol use interact . The results suggest that a stressful situation can trigger a change in the way that the brain responds to alcohol . This altered response may be the result of a specific group of brain cells that are activated by alcohol and stress . Further research is needed to understand how these cells work , and to identify ways to treat stress disorders in people who drink too much .
The heat shock response helps protect cells from damage caused by high temperatures . It works by producing proteins that help cells survive during stressful conditions . When cells are exposed to heat , a protein called heat shock factor 1 activates the production of other proteins called heat shock proteins . One of these proteins is called HSP70 . In this study , Nudler et al . show that another protein called eEF1A1 helps to activate the production of HSP70 . The experiments were done on human cells , which are similar to those found in the body . The experiments also showed that eEF1A1 helps to regulate the production of other heat shock proteins , and that it is required for the production of HSP70 proteins . This protein is only produced in cells that are exposed to high temperatures , and it helps to protect cells from damage caused by heat . The study suggests that eEF1A1 could be a drug target for treating diseases caused by protein misfolding . For example , it could help to treat conditions such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease .
The genes involved in flower formation are usually switched off due to the tightly packed structure of chromatin in most plant cells . This makes it hard for these genes to be switched on when they are needed . MONOPTEROS is a plant protein that is involved in flower formation and helps to switch on these genes . It does this by recruiting other proteins that change the structure of chromatin to make the chromatin more accessible to the genes . This allows the genes to be switched on . When MONOPTEROS is present in plant cells , the genes involved in flower formation are switched on . However , when MONOPTEROS is not present , the genes involved in flower formation are switched off . This is because a group of proteins called Aux/IAA proteins bind to the MONOPTEROS protein and prevent it from recruiting the other proteins that change the structure of chromatin . In the text the authors show that Aux/IAA proteins prevent MONOPTEROS from recruiting the other proteins that change the structure of chromatin . The authors also show that MONOPTEROS and the other proteins that change the structure of chromatin are required to switch on the genes involved in flower formation . This study reveals a new way that plant cells can switch genes on . It also shows that MONOPTEROS is involved in many other processes in plant cells .
Stem cells are the cells that create the blood cells that circulate in the body . In bone marrow , stem cells divide and differentiate into blood cells that are released into the bloodstream . When the body needs more blood cells , stem cells produce more . In people with myelodysplastic syndrome ( MDS ) , the stem cells in the bone marrow are unable to produce enough healthy blood cells . MDS is a common type of blood cancer that occurs when blood cells fail to develop normally . The genes that control the development of stem cells are often mutated in MDS patients . One of these genes is located on chromosome 7 , which contains 7q22 , a region that is frequently deleted in MDS patients . To understand how the loss of 7q22 leads to MDS , researchers created mice that lacked this region of chromosome 7 . The mice had many of the same abnormalities found in MDS patients , including an expansion of immature blood stem cells and inadequate specialization into mature blood cells . The mice also had reduced levels of certain proteins that protect the cells from damaging molecules called reactive oxygen species . These findings support a role for 7q22 deletions in MDS , and suggest that they may be a key factor in the development of the disease .
Answer: The somatosensory system carries information about touch, pain, and temperature.
Humans have 46 chromosomes in their cells . Each chromosome contains a long and a short arm , which are attached to each other by a protein called cohesin . The chromosomes are also attached to a structure called the spindle fibre , which helps the cell to divide the chromosomes during cell division . When cells divide , they must make sure that each daughter cell has a complete set of chromosomes . This is especially important when it comes to sex cells , as the number of chromosomes must be exactly right for the new cells to be able to produce healthy offspring . The process of making sure that each daughter cell has the correct number of chromosomes is called meiosis . During meiosis , the chromosomes are divided into two identical sets of 23 chromosomes . This is an important step in the process of reproduction . The chromosomes are divided into two groups , with each group containing one copy of each chromosome . The two groups are called homologous chromosomes . Meiosis is a complex process , and many different proteins are needed to make it work . One of these proteins is called cohesin . Cohesin holds the chromosomes together , and also helps to divide them . Another protein is called a crossover . Crossovers occur when two homologous chromosomes swap part of their DNA . This helps to make sure that the genetic information is passed on to the new cells . Crossovers are important because they help to make sure that each new cell has the correct number of chromosomes . Scientists have found that the crossover proteins in nematode worms are similar to those in humans , and also work in a similar way . However , it was not clear how the crossover proteins were able to make sure that the chromosomes divide correctly . Now , Rog et al . – including Rog et al . – have found that a group of proteins called ZHP proteins are involved in this process . These proteins act together to make sure that the crossovers occur only on one homologous chromosome pair . This means that the chromosomes can divide correctly . The ZHP proteins also help to make sure that the crossovers are not too close to the centromere , which is a special part of the chromosome that helps the cell to divide the chromosome . The study by Rog et al . suggests that the ZHP proteins may also help to make sure that the chromosomes divide correctly in other animals . Further studies will be needed to find out if this is true .
Cells divide into two daughter cells when they grow old . This process is known as cell division or mitosis . At the end of mitosis , the DNA is replicated and the two daughter cells are separated from each other . The process of cell division is controlled by a group of proteins called the cell cycle . The cell cycle is like a factory that makes all the proteins the cell needs to divide . It is also like a traffic system with traffic lights that tell the cell when to stop and when to start moving . The traffic lights are controlled by a protein called cyclin B . When the traffic lights are green , the cell can divide . When the traffic lights are red , the cell stops and waits for the green light to come back on . The traffic lights are controlled by a group of proteins called the checkpoint . The checkpoint stops the cell from dividing until it has replicated its DNA . Once the DNA is replicated , the traffic lights turn green again and the cell starts dividing . The checkpoint is controlled by a group of proteins called the anaphase exit proteins . These proteins tell the cell when to stop dividing and when to start moving . When the traffic lights turn green , the anaphase exit proteins are destroyed . This triggers the cell to divide . The anaphase exit proteins are also controlled by a group of proteins called the phosphatases . Phosphatases remove phosphate groups from proteins . These phosphate groups make proteins stick together . Phosphatases also help to control the timing of events in the cell cycle . The phosphatases are like a group of traffic police . They tell the anaphase exit proteins when to stop and when to start moving . If the phosphatases are not working properly , the cell can become unstable and develop cancer . It is important to understand how the anaphase exit proteins work so that we can develop new treatments to prevent cancer . Holder et al . have now used a technique called mass spectrometry to study the phosphatases in the cell . Holder et al . found that a single phosphatase called PP1 was responsible for controlling when the anaphase exit proteins were destroyed . This protein is like the traffic police . PP1 is also involved in other processes in the cell . Holder et al . also found that a group of proteins called the checkpoint proteins are also destroyed at the same time as the anaphase exit proteins . This is like a group of traffic police stopping the traffic . The checkpoint proteins make sure that the cell has replicated its DNA before it starts dividing . Together , the phosphatases and the checkpoint proteins control the timing of events in the cell cycle . Further studies are now needed to understand how these proteins work .
Depression is a mood disorder that is often triggered by stress . It is often difficult to treat , but researchers are working on identifying the causes of the condition . Mutations in a gene called Wfs1 can lead to a rare condition called Wolfram syndrome , which includes depression . The Wfs1 gene is expressed in a type of cell in the brain called pyramidal cells . To investigate whether these cells play a role in depression , Shrestha et al . injected a virus into the prefrontal cortex of mice that carries a mutated version of the Wfs1 gene . This caused the mice to be more sensitive to stress and to display behaviors similar to depression . The virus was also used to delete the Wfs1 gene in a specific type of pyramidal cell in the prefrontal cortex . This resulted in the mice becoming more sensitive to stress and displaying behaviors similar to depression . These findings suggest that Wfs1-expressing pyramidal cells in the prefrontal cortex may play a role in depression . Further research is needed to understand the specific roles of these cells in depression and to determine whether Wfs1 mutations are a cause of the condition .
Proteins are made up of a chain of amino acids that fold into a three-dimensional structure . This structure determines the protein's function . In fact , it is the structure that determines whether a protein can carry out its intended function . The three-dimensional structure of a protein is controlled by many different factors , including the conditions in the cell . One of these factors is the number of other proteins and molecules that are present in the cell . This can affect the structure of the protein . For example , if there are more proteins in the cell , then the proteins are more likely to interact with each other and form a compact structure . This can help the protein to carry out its function . However , it can also make it harder for the protein to change its structure . This means that the protein cannot change its shape as easily , which can affect its function . The structure of proteins is therefore a critical factor in their function . This means that the structure of a protein must be just right for it to carry out its function . If the structure is too flexible , then it may not be able to interact with other proteins and molecules in the correct way . If the structure is too compact , then it may not be able to change its shape to react to changes in the cell . Therefore , it is important for a protein to adopt one specific shape for certain activities . This is because the efficiency of a protein in performing a specific job depends on the likelihood of it taking on the required shape . A protein called Hsp90 is one of the most important proteins in the cell . It helps other proteins to fold correctly . Hsp90 is also involved in many other cellular processes . In order to understand how Hsp90 works , the researchers studied the protein under different conditions . They found that Hsp90 changed its shape in response to different conditions . For example , the protein became more compact when it was in a crowded cellular environment . This meant that it was more likely to interact with other proteins and molecules in the cell . The protein also became more compact when a specific molecule called Aha1 bound to it . However , the protein also became more compact when there were more proteins in the cell . This suggests that Hsp90 is able to change its structure in response to different conditions . The researchers also found that Hsp90 became more efficient at its main function when it was in a crowded cellular environment . This means that the protein is able to work better when there are more proteins and molecules in the cell . The researchers suggest that proteins are able to change their shape in response to different conditions . This means that proteins are able to adapt to changes in the cell . This could help to explain why proteins are able to carry out their functions in a wide range of conditions .
Cells can grow a new part of their body in response to signals from the environment . This process is called cell polarity . In some cells , like budding yeast , the front of the cell is formed by a cluster of proteins called Cdc42 . However , it is not clear why only one cluster of Cdc42 is needed to form the front . To answer this question , Wu et al . used live-cell imaging to study how budding yeast cells form the front of their cell . This revealed that yeast cells form multiple clusters of Cdc42 , but only one cluster eventually survives to form the front . Wu et al . then asked whether competition between these clusters was responsible for this effect . They found that slowing down the exchange of Cdc42 between the cell surface and the interior allowed the cells to maintain multiple clusters , and even to form two or three buds at once . The results of these experiments suggest that competition between clusters is a key factor in determining the front of the cell . These findings provide insight into how cells form the front and back of their body . The next challenge is to understand how some cells in animals and other fungi suppress competition for polarity factors to form multiple fronts .
DNA contains the genetic information that is passed on from one generation to the next . It is made up of two strands that are wound together in the shape of a double helix . The two strands are held together by hydrogen bonds , which are weak bonds that allow the DNA to be easily broken . This is important because DNA must be repaired if it is damaged . If DNA is not repaired , it can become damaged beyond repair and mutate into a different sequence of nucleotides . This can lead to a cell becoming cancerous . DNA is often damaged by exposure to radiation and chemicals . Cells have mechanisms to repair DNA damage . In some cases , these mechanisms involve cutting the damaged DNA and repairing it by adding a new DNA sequence . In other cases , the cell can exchange one DNA strand for another that has an intact sequence . The exchange of DNA strands is called homologous recombination . Homologous recombination is carried out by proteins called RecA . The RecA proteins form a filament that binds to one DNA strand and then searches for an intact sequence on the other strand . Once the intact sequence is found , the RecA filament exchanges the two strands . The RecA proteins can also repair DNA damage by adding a new DNA sequence to the damaged strand . The process of adding a new DNA sequence is called homologous recombination . The RecA proteins form a filament that binds to one DNA strand and then searches for an intact sequence on the other strand . Once the intact sequence is found , the RecA filament exchanges the two strands . The RecA proteins can also repair DNA damage by adding a new DNA sequence to the damaged strand . The process of adding a new DNA sequence is called homologous recombination .
Antiterminator proteins help the enzyme building RNA molecules to ignore termination signals , allowing viruses to transcribe all the genes in their genomes . This is achieved by the antiterminator proteins binding to RNA and preventing the enzyme from terminating the RNA . Leyrat et al . studied the antiterminator protein M2-1 from human metapneumovirus . The structure of M2-1 revealed that it recognizes RNA by a zinc finger and that this is stabilized by the binding of a second adenine base . The antiterminator protein M2-1 is also found in other viruses , including Ebola and filoviruses . Understanding how M2-1 recognizes RNA and how this enables it to prevent termination of viral genes may help to develop new antiviral drugs .
Lysosomes are organelles that break down waste products and recycle proteins in cells. They are highly acidic , with a pH that is lower than most other organelles . This acidity is thought to be important for the function of lysosomes . However , it is not clear why lysosomes are so acidic or what role , if any , chloride ions play in this process . Chakraborty et al . used a DNA-based nanodevice called Clensor to measure chloride ions in lysosomes in the roundworm Caenorhabditis elegans . The experiments showed that lysosomes in C . elegans are rich in chloride and that reducing chloride levels in these organelles compromised their ability to break down waste products . These findings suggest that chloride ions play a critical role in lysosome function . The experiments also showed that lysosomes in mammalian cells are rich in chloride too , and that lysosomes in mammalian cells that had lost their ability to break down waste products also had lower chloride levels . Chakraborty et al . also found that reducing chloride levels in mammalian cells compromised the activity of key enzymes that break down proteins . These findings suggest that chloride ions are important for the activity of these enzymes . The experiments also revealed that the lysosomes in mammalian cells that had lost their ability to break down waste products were highly acidic , indicating that the acidity of lysosomes is important for their function . These findings reveal that lysosomes are highly chloride-rich organelles that are critical for their function .
Gaze following is the ability to follow another person's gaze to identify the object they are looking at . Humans rely on eye position to infer where someone is looking , whereas non-human primates use the orientation of the face . This difference in determining gaze direction is thought to be due to the fact that humans have much larger eyes and are more sensitive to the orientation of the face . However , the neural circuits underlying gaze following in humans and non-human primates are not well understood . To gain a deeper understanding of the neural circuits involved in gaze following , Marciniak et al . used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI ) to track brain activity in two rhesus monkeys . The results suggest that the brain in monkeys is capable of computing the direction of gaze and shifting attention to the same location . The experiments also revealed that the region of the brain responsible for gaze following in monkeys is located in the superior temporal sulcus , a region of the brain known to be involved in processing visual information on faces . These findings suggest that gaze following in monkeys and humans may share similar neural circuits . Further research is needed to determine if the neural circuits involved in gaze following are similar in monkeys and humans .
Amblyopia is a condition where the vision in one eye does not develop properly during childhood. It can be caused by squinting, where the eyes point in different directions, or other eye problems . If amblyopia is detected early , it is possible to treat it by patching the eye that is not being used . However , even with treatment , amblyopia can cause long-term problems . If the amblyopic eye is not used for many years , it can become less sensitive and the brain may not be able to adapt to use the other eye properly . As a result , amblyopic people may have difficulty with tasks that require two eyes , such as reading or judging distances . It is not clear how the brain adapts to the loss of one eye and whether it can be helped by using both eyes again . Kaneko and Stryker have now studied this problem in mice . The researchers found that when the mice ran on a treadmill while viewing a visual stimulus , their brain was able to recover more quickly from the effects of amblyopia . Kaneko and Stryker also discovered that the brain only recovered to the extent that it was exposed to the particular visual stimulus during running . The findings suggest that running can help the brain to adapt to vision problems and may help to improve vision in amblyopic people . However , more work is needed to understand how running affects the brain and whether it can be used to treat amblyopia in humans .
Tropical leaf-cutting ants are highly specialized herbivores that feed on leaves and use the nutrients they provide to support their own survival . They are able to do this by providing freshly cut leaves to a fungus that grows in their underground nests . The fungus is also able to use the nutrients in the leaves to grow . The ants and the fungus work together in a mutualistic relationship . This means that they both benefit from each other . The ants provide the fungus with fresh leaves and the fungus provides the ants with nutrients . This mutualistic relationship has evolved over millions of years . The ants have evolved ways to make sure that the fungus can access the nutrients in the leaves . For example , they break the leaves down into small pieces and then deposit the pieces on the fungus to be used as a source of nutrients . The ants also help the fungus to grow by providing it with a place to grow in . In return , the fungus helps the ants to survive by providing them with a safe place to live . The ants and the fungus also work together to protect themselves from predators . For example , the ants can use the fungus to make toxic chemicals to protect themselves from predators . This relationship is so successful that the ants have become a major agricultural pest in some parts of the world . The ants and the fungus work together so well that they have become known as a model for mutualistic relationships in biology . The ants and the fungus are able to work together to produce more nutrients than if they were working alone . This is because the ants can provide the fungus with fresh leaves and the fungus can provide the ants with nutrients . In the future , it is likely that researchers will use the ants and the fungus as a model for developing new methods to break down plant material more efficiently . This could be useful for industries such as bioethanol production and the detergent industry .
A protein called PP2A is responsible for preventing cells from dividing too much . However , this protein can be deactivated in cancer cells , leading to uncontrolled cell growth . Many types of cancer cells have high levels of a protein called Greatwall , which can also deactivate PP2A . Greatwall is overactive in many types of cancer , and it is often mutated in breast , prostate , and colon cancers . Greatwall also has a role in cancer development . It is unclear how Greatwall overexpression promotes cancer growth . Jullien et al . examined whether Greatwall overexpression in human cells could lead to increased cell division and tumour growth . Human cancer cells were grown in the laboratory and transfected with a virus that encoded Greatwall . The cells were then analysed to see if they could divide more than normal cells . Greatwall overexpression caused cancer cells to divide more than normal cells , and also increased their ability to move through tissues . Moreover , it also increased the levels of a protein called AKT , which is important for cell division . Increasing AKT activity is a common feature of cancer cells . Greatwall also promotes the degradation of a protein called PHLPP , which is involved in AKT activity . Overexpression of PHLPP in Greatwall-overexpressing cells prevented the increased cell division and tumour growth observed in Greatwall-overexpressing cells . Together , these results suggest that Greatwall overexpression promotes cancer growth by activating AKT and increasing PHLPP degradation . Further studies are needed to determine how Greatwall is overactive in cancer cells .
Antibiotics are drugs that kill bacteria and are used to treat bacterial infections . Antibiotics are commonly used in the treatment of bacterial infections , and , in effectively combating such diseases , have substantially increased human life expectancy . However , the rise of antibiotic resistance means that antibiotics are becoming less effective . New drugs are being developed , but their effects on the human immune system are not well understood . In this study , the researchers tested a recently approved antibiotic called bedaquiline , which is used to treat tuberculosis infections that are resistant to several drugs . The researchers used a technique called RNA sequencing to study the effects of bedaquiline on human cells . They found that bedaquiline increased the activity of cells that fight bacterial infections and also increased the ability of the cells to kill bacteria . The researchers also found that bedaquiline increased the levels of a chemical called nitric oxide , which is a signal that helps to fight bacterial infections . The researchers suggest that bedaquiline could be used to treat infections that are resistant to other antibiotics . However , more research is needed to understand the long-term effects of using bedaquiline on the human immune system .
The cells that line the inside of the lungs are called epithelial cells . They are responsible for keeping the airways clear and also help the lungs to expand and contract . These cells have a number of different roles , including helping to keep the airways open and contracting to help the lungs take in oxygen . In order to perform these roles , the epithelial cells need to be able to contract and expand . The proteins that help the epithelial cells to contract and expand are called myosin light chains . The proteins are made in the cell and need to be produced in the correct amounts to ensure the correct contraction and expansion of the lungs . The protein that helps to control the production of myosin light chains is called YAP . YAP is a protein that is found in many different types of cells in the body . It is a master switch that can turn on or off the production of a variety of proteins that control cell behavior . YAP is controlled by a signaling pathway called the Hippo pathway . The Hippo pathway is important for many tissues to grow and develop correctly . However , it is not clear how the Hippo pathway controls the production of myosin light chains in the lungs . Lin et al . studied the role of YAP in developing lungs in mice . Lin et al . found that when YAP was turned off , the lungs of the mice grew more slowly . The lungs also had fewer epithelial cells and the airways were not as open as they should be . Lin et al . found that the production of myosin light chains was reduced when YAP was turned off . This suggests that YAP controls the production of myosin light chains in the lungs . Lin et al . also found that the production of other proteins that control cell contraction was reduced when YAP was turned off . These proteins are called RhoGEFs . Lin et al . suggest that YAP controls the production of myosin light chains and other proteins that control cell contraction through a complex network of signals . This work could help to explain how changes in the Hippo pathway could lead to lung problems . Further studies are needed to understand how these changes occur in the lungs .
The five senses that humans use to interpret the world around them include touch, sight, hearing, smell, and taste . Bacteria use a variety of sensory pathways to gather information about their environment and potential hosts . One such pathway is the type III secretion system , which allows bacteria to export proteins into the host or the surrounding environment . This system is found in many types of bacteria , and is known as the injectisome . The injectisome is made up of a long needle-like structure that protrudes from the bacterial cell wall . It is surrounded by a ring-shaped structure called the basal body , which is thought to be the part of the injectisome that can change shape to accommodate external conditions . However , the structure of the basal body has not been well understood . Now , Schroeder et al . have used advanced imaging techniques to study the basal body of the injectisome in intact bacteria . The experiments revealed that the basal body of the injectisome is elastic , and that it can stretch by up to 50% in length . This suggests that the basal body is able to adapt to environmental changes while maintaining its sensory abilities and potential for invading hosts . Further experiments revealed that the elasticity of the basal body is controlled by the interactions between two proteins , YscD and YscJ , which are part of the injectisome . These findings reveal a new level of complexity in the injectisome and its interactions with the environment .
Plants are able to grow and reproduce by controlling their development and reproduction . This is achieved by a network of genes that are activated at specific times and places . The FERONIA receptor kinase is one of these genes , and is required for female fertility in plants . However , it is unclear how FERONIA controls plant growth and reproduction . To investigate , Duan et al . have used the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana to show that FERONIA interacts with two proteins called LLG1 and LRE , which are involved in cell growth and reproduction . This interaction helps FERONIA to move to the cell membrane of the plant , where it can send signals to other proteins and trigger the growth and reproduction of the plant . The results also show that LLG1 and LRE are required for FERONIA to move to the cell membrane , and that FERONIA depends on them to function properly . This discovery provides new insights into how FERONIA controls plant growth and reproduction . Further studies are needed to understand the role of FERONIA in plant growth and reproduction .
Life on Earth can be divided into three domains: bacteria, archaea, and eukaryotes. Bacteria are single-celled organisms that can be found almost anywhere in the environment. Archaea are single-celled organisms that live in extreme environments such as hot springs and salt lakes. Eukaryotes are single-celled organisms that have a nucleus and are found in almost all environments. In eukaryotes , the DNA is packaged in structures called nucleosomes . Nucleosomes are made up of a histone protein and a segment of DNA wrapped around it . The DNA is packaged into nucleosomes in a way that makes it harder for other proteins to access it . This means that only proteins that are involved in reading the DNA can access it , and this helps control which genes are turned on or off . Archaea are thought to be the closest relatives of eukaryotes , but they are much smaller and simpler . It is not clear how their DNA is packaged into nucleosomes . In this study , the researchers looked at the DNA of Haloferax volcanii , a single-celled archaeon that lives in salt lakes . They found that the DNA in Haloferax volcanii is packaged into nucleosomes in a similar way to that seen in eukaryotes . This suggests that nucleosomes evolved before the divergence of archaea and eukaryotes .
When animals eat a balanced diet , they can live longer than if they eat only one nutrient . However , the effects of different nutrients on lifespan are not well understood . In the fruit fly , Drosophila melanogaster , scientists have found that when flies are fed a protein-rich diet , they eat less of other nutrients . This means that flies that eat more protein are less likely to live longer . Flies that are fed protein have a high level of a chemical called serotonin in their brains . This chemical is involved in the way the brain processes information about food . Linford et al . found that if flies do not have enough serotonin , they do not eat as much protein and live longer . If the flies were given a protein-rich diet and then had less serotonin , they lived longer than they did when they were fed a diet that contained only sugar . This suggests that serotonin may help the flies to live longer by making them eat less protein . Linford et al . then tested whether serotonin helps other animals to live longer by studying mice . Linford et al . found that mice that were given a protein-rich diet lived longer than mice that were fed a sugar-rich diet . These results suggest that serotonin may be important for living longer . Further work is needed to understand how the brain processes information about food and how this affects lifespan .
Cancer is caused by mutations in genes that are responsible for controlling cell growth and division . These mutations allow cancer cells to grow out of control and form tumors . But it is not clear why some genes are mutated more often than others in cancer . Grosso et al . now show that mutations in a gene called SETD2 cause the RNA-making machinery of cancer cells to skip over genes and make longer RNA molecules . This can lead to the production of RNA molecules that make “fusion” proteins that are not present in normal cells . Grosso et al . also found that some of the RNA molecules produced in cancer cells are not present in normal cells and could have different functions . The findings suggest that mutations in genes that control RNA production can play a role in cancer . Further studies are needed to understand how these changes in RNA production might help cancer cells to grow and spread .
Lipoproteins are particles that package fats in our diet and deliver them to cells throughout the body . The process of breaking down fats to release fatty acids and glycerol is carried out by an enzyme called lipoprotein lipase . It is responsible for breaking down triglyceride-rich lipoproteins , which are the main form of fat in the blood . Lipoprotein lipase is anchored to the surface of blood vessels by a protein called glycolipid-anchored high density lipoprotein-binding protein 1 ( GPIHBP1 ) . The interaction between lipoprotein lipase and GPIHBP1 is essential for the delivery of fatty acids to cells . Mutations in GPIHBP1 cause a rare condition called chylomicronemia , which is characterized by high levels of triglycerides in the blood . However , the mechanism by which GPIHBP1 interacts with lipoprotein lipase and helps to break down triglycerides is poorly understood . Now , Beigneux et al . have used advanced biophysical techniques to study the interaction between the two proteins . The experiments revealed that the acidic domain of GPIHBP1 is intrinsically disordered and stabilizes lipoprotein lipase by inhibiting the unfolding of its catalytic domain . The study also showed that the acidic domain of GPIHBP1 binds to two regions in the catalytic domain of lipoprotein lipase . These findings provide new insights into the mechanism of lipoprotein lipase action and could help to develop new treatments for individuals with high levels of lipids in their blood .
Proteins are the building blocks of all living cells and are made by cells using the genetic information encoded in DNA . The genetic information is then copied into a molecule called RNA , which acts as a template to make a protein . The process of copying the information from DNA to RNA is called transcription . The transcription process is controlled by a variety of proteins , including transcription factors , which bind to specific DNA sequences and either activate or inhibit transcription . In this study , Zhang et al . investigated one of these transcription factors called TraR . This protein is found in bacteria , and it helps the bacteria survive during times of nutrient shortages by controlling which genes are turned on and off . Zhang et al . used a technique called cryo-electron microscopy to study the structure of RNAP , a protein that is responsible for transcribing DNA into RNA . The results of this study revealed that TraR interacts with RNAP in a way that alters its shape and activity . The experiments also revealed that TraR changes the interactions between RNAP and the DNA . This alters the way that RNAP interacts with the DNA and changes the process of transcription . The experiments also revealed that TraR interacts with a region of the RNAP protein that is important for the RNAP to work correctly . The experiments show that the way that TraR interacts with the RNAP protein is different from other transcription factors , and this suggests that TraR is a unique and important factor in controlling transcription . Further experiments are needed to understand how TraR controls transcription and how it helps bacteria survive during times of nutrient shortages .
We have a tendency to eat more when we are hungry , and less when we are full . However , we also have the ability to learn to eat more or less based on external cues . For example , if we know that food will be available soon , we might eat more than if we did not know when we would get our next meal . This is called conditioned feeding behavior . In the brain , a hormone called ghrelin stimulates appetite and feeding behavior . It is produced by the stomach and increases in anticipation of eating . It is released from the stomach when we are hungry , and it stimulates feeding behavior in the brain . The brain region that receives ghrelin is called the hippocampus . It is also involved in learning and memory . In the hippocampus , ghrelin stimulates the production of another hormone called orexin , which also stimulates feeding behavior . In the current study , the researchers investigated how ghrelin and orexin interact in the brain . The researchers used mice that were trained to eat when they were hungry . The mice were given a drug that blocked ghrelin from stimulating the hippocampus . The mice then ate less than usual , indicating that ghrelin is required for conditioned feeding behavior . The researchers then examined the connections between the hippocampus and other brain regions involved in feeding behavior . They found that the hippocampus communicates with a region of the brain called the lateral hypothalamus , which is involved in feeding behavior . The researchers also found that ghrelin stimulates the production of orexin in the lateral hypothalamus . These findings suggest that ghrelin sends a signal to the lateral hypothalamus , which then stimulates feeding behavior . In the future , the researchers plan to investigate how other brain regions involved in feeding behavior are connected to the hippocampus . The next step is to understand how orexin is produced in the lateral hypothalamus . The researchers also plan to examine how ghrelin stimulates feeding behavior in other brain regions . In addition , the researchers plan to investigate how the brain processes other cues that tell us when to eat . The researchers hope that these studies will lead to a better understanding of how the brain controls feeding behavior . This will help us develop treatments for people who overeat or under-eat .
Dengue is a virus that spreads through the bite of mosquitoes . The disease is common in tropical countries and can be deadly . The virus is also known to cause a painful and debilitating illness in humans . There are four different serotypes of the virus , which can cause different symptoms and lead to different outcomes . It is difficult to determine the effectiveness of control measures , such as removing mosquito breeding grounds , because there are many factors that influence the spread of the disease . To address this , Kucharski et al . collected blood samples from a subset of the population before and after an outbreak of dengue in Fiji in 2013/14 . They then used these data to study patterns of infection and immunity , and to fit mathematical models to understand the dynamics of the outbreak . The analysis showed that the main cause of the outbreak was the virus itself . However , the analysis also suggested that there was a decline in transmission of the virus during the outbreak . This was likely due to a nationwide mosquito-removal campaign that took place at the same time as the outbreak . This study provides insights into the factors that influence the spread of dengue and demonstrates how mathematical models can be used to understand the impact of control measures .
Trypanosomes are parasites that cause sleeping sickness in humans and animals . They are able to survive in the human bloodstream for years and can be transmitted by the bite of an infected tsetse fly . The parasites contain a molecule called trypanothione , which is similar to a molecule called glutathione in mammals . Both trypanothione and glutathione protect cells against damage caused by free radicals . However , the molecular mechanisms that protect trypanothione are not well understood . In the parasites , trypanothione is produced in the cytosol and the mitochondrion , a compartment that contains the parasite’s energy-producing machinery . Ebersoll et al . have now developed a fluorescent biosensor that can measure the trypanothione redox state in real-time in intact trypanosomes . The biosensor is based on a molecule called roGFP2 , which is a variant of a protein called glutaredoxin . The biosensor was fused to either the fluorescent protein roGFP2 or to a protein called hGrx1 that is involved in the regulation of glutathione . The biosensor was introduced into parasites that lacked trypanothione and expressed in the cytosol or mitochondrion . Ebersoll et al . showed that the biosensor can detect changes in the trypanothione redox state in the cytosol . However , the mitochondrion also contains trypanothione , and the biosensor was able to measure changes in the trypanothione redox state in the mitochondrion . Ebersoll et al . also showed that the biosensor can detect the oxidative stress caused by the drug diamide , which is used to treat sleeping sickness . Depleting the trypanothione molecule in the mitochondrion led to changes in the biosensor’s redox state . This suggests that a protein called mPrx is involved in reducing the trypanothione in the mitochondrion . Further studies are needed to identify the protein that transfers reducing equivalents from trypanothione to the mitochondrial peroxidases .
Specialized cells in the skeleton are constantly breaking down and rebuilding bone tissue. This process is necessary to maintain the skeleton's shape and strength, and to repair damage caused by injuries or infections. However, when the bone remodeling process becomes too aggressive, it can lead to the development of Paget's disease of bone (PDB). PDB is a chronic condition that can cause bones to become weak and misshapen, leading to pain, fractures, and neurological problems. It can also increase the risk of cancer and hearing loss. There are currently no treatments that can reverse the damage that has already occurred, but bisphosphonates can help alleviate the symptoms. Environmental factors, such as diet, pollution, and viral infections, can trigger PDB. However, the underlying changes that lead to PDB are not yet clear. Diboun et al. have now used DNA methylation analysis to study the genetic changes that occur in the bones of people with PDB. This analysis revealed that many of the genes that are associated with PDB are also involved in the immune system, and that environmental factors may trigger changes in the bone cells' genes. The study also identified several genes that are associated with immune processes, which could be involved in triggering PDB. This work provides new insights into the underlying changes that lead to PDB and could help identify individuals at risk of developing the condition.
Blood cells are specialized cells that help to carry oxygen and fight off infections . They are produced from stem cells that are found in the lymph gland , a small organ located in the larvae of fruit flies . In fruit flies , the lymph gland is the only organ in the body that makes blood cells , and it is formed from a tube called the cardiogenic mesoderm . Scientists have long been interested in studying how blood cells develop in animals , but it is difficult to do this in humans or mammals . Fruit flies are a useful model for studying blood cells because they are easy to breed in the laboratory , and they have many of the same genes as humans . However , the lymph gland in fruit flies is not fully understood . Now , researchers have used a fruit fly model to study the lymph gland and have discovered that it contains stem cells that are similar to blood stem cells found in mammals . These stem cells are called hematopoietic stem cells . Further analysis revealed that they rely on a signal from a group of cells called the hematopoietic niche to survive and grow . The discovery of the fruit fly hematopoietic stem cells could help scientists to understand how blood cells develop in humans and how they become unhealthy in diseases . It could also help to develop new treatments for blood diseases .
The lungs contain tiny air sacs called alveoli that are responsible for exchanging oxygen for carbon dioxide . The alveoli are surrounded by a thin layer of cells called alveolar type I cells . When a baby is born , these cells fold to form a sac that expands and produces a layer of alveoli . This process is known as alveolar development . The lungs also contain a type of cell called a fibroblast that helps to form the sacs . Alveolar development is a critical process that occurs in the first few months after birth in mice and in the last few months before birth in humans . Alveolar development is also important for repairing the lungs following injury . In a healthy lung , the sacs are arranged in a honeycomb pattern . However , in diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , this pattern of sacs is disrupted , leading to lung damage and breathing difficulties . The molecular mechanisms that control alveolar development are not fully understood . Zhang et al . have now identified a molecular pathway that controls alveolar development in mice . This pathway involves a protein called Wnt5a that is produced by the alveolar type I cells . Wnt5a activates a signaling pathway called the planar cell polarity pathway , which controls the shape of cells . The pathway also controls the movement of fibroblasts and the formation of sacs in the lungs . In mice with a mutation in a gene that codes for Wnt5a , the sacs failed to form . This suggests that Wnt5a is essential for alveolar development . Zhang et al . also found that a protein called Vangl2 , which is part of the planar cell polarity pathway , is essential for the movement of fibroblasts . These findings suggest that the planar cell polarity pathway plays a key role in alveolar development . Further studies will be needed to understand how this pathway is integrated with other cellular processes to form the sacs in the lungs . This work could help to develop new treatments for diseases that affect the lungs .
Proteins are built from molecules called amino acids , which are linked together in a chain to form a protein . The order of the amino acids in a protein is determined by the gene that encodes the protein . The gene is then transcribed into a molecule of RNA , which is then translated into a protein . The process of translation involves the reading of the RNA sequence and the assembly of amino acids into a chain , with each amino acid being linked to the one that precedes it . In order to correctly build a protein , the sequence of amino acids must be read in the correct order . If the sequence of amino acids is incorrect , the protein may not function properly or even be toxic to the cell . Amino acids that are not part of the genetic code are known as non-proteinogenic amino acids , and they are not read by the ribosome during translation . Amino acids that are not part of the genetic code are often produced in cells as a result of oxidative stress , which occurs when cells are exposed to high levels of oxygen . The ribosome is unable to read the non-proteinogenic amino acids , and so they are not incorporated into the protein . This means that the protein is missing some of its amino acids . Certain non-proteinogenic amino acids can be toxic to cells , so the ribosome has evolved to be able to read them and prevent them from being incorporated into the protein . The ribosome is able to do this by using a molecule called a tRNA , which acts as a molecular machine to bring the correct amino acid to the ribosome . However , some non-proteinogenic amino acids are not well understood . To find out more about these non-proteinogenic amino acids , Ibba et al . studied the bacterium Escherichia coli , which is a common cause of food poisoning in humans . The bacterium has a protein called phenylalanine tRNA synthetase , which is able to read the non-proteinogenic amino acid methyl-tyrosine . The bacterium is also able to read tyrosine , another non-proteinogenic amino acid . The results of the experiments suggest that the bacterium is able to prevent the incorporation of methyl-tyrosine into proteins by using its phenylalanine tRNA synthetase . The results also suggest that methyl-tyrosine is toxic to the bacterium , and that the bacterium needs the ability to read this amino acid in order to survive . The results also suggest that the ability of the ribosome to read non-proteinogenic amino acids is important for the survival of bacteria under stressful conditions .
In animals , the cells of a tissue are connected to each other by a network of fibres called the extracellular matrix ( ECM ) . The ECM is made up of proteins and molecules that are secreted by the cells . These molecules are then absorbed by the cells and help to stabilize the shape of the tissue . The ECM also plays a role in cell communication , which is important for the proper development and function of tissues . The ECM also plays a role in the growth of tissues and the spread of cancer cells . In fruit flies , the trachea is a tube that carries air from the lungs to the rest of the body . Tracheal cells secrete a chitin-rich ECM that lines the inside of the tube . The tracheal ECM is also made up of a protein called actin , which is an important component of the cytoskeleton . The actin is arranged in rings around the trachea . The tracheal ECM is thought to be involved in the formation of the tracheal tube , but the exact mechanisms involved are not well understood . Moussian et al . have now used genetic experiments to show that the tracheal ECM is involved in the formation of the tracheal tube . Moussian et al . found that the tracheal ECM also helps to regulate the arrangement of the actin rings in the trachea . In addition , Moussian et al . showed that the tracheal ECM helps to regulate the activity of a protein called Src42A , which is involved in cell communication . These results suggest that the tracheal ECM is involved in the formation of the tracheal tube and also helps to regulate the activity of proteins involved in cell communication . The tracheal ECM is also important in the growth and spread of cancer cells . Further studies are needed to understand the mechanisms involved in the formation of the tracheal ECM and to identify the proteins involved in this process .
When we make decisions in our daily lives, we often consider many options before choosing the best one. For example, when we are deciding where to go for coffee, we might consider different options and evaluate the pros and cons of each one. The brain uses a process called decision-making to make these choices. However , it is not known how the brain makes decisions when there are many options to consider. Two models of decision-making suggest that the brain either makes decisions one at a time or simultaneously by comparing all of the options . Zylberberg et al . have shown that the brain uses a model that makes decisions one at a time , which is called hierarchical decision-making . However , it is not known whether this model is correct . Zylberberg et al . then trained monkeys to make decisions by looking at a screen and choosing between different options . They measured the activity of neurons in the monkeys’ brains while they made decisions . Zylberberg et al . found that the monkeys’ brains did not use the hierarchical model , but instead used a model that makes decisions simultaneously . Zylberberg et al . then showed that this model cannot explain the results of the monkeys’ experiments . Zylberberg et al . then conducted a new experiment with human volunteers to find out if the brain can make decisions in parallel . The experiment showed that the brain can make decisions in parallel when there are a limited number of options to consider . However , the results suggest that the brain cannot make decisions in parallel when there are a large number of options to consider . This work helps us understand how the brain makes decisions in the real world . Future studies can explore how the brain makes decisions when there are many options to consider .
Humans have a remarkable ability to learn from experience and adapt to new situations. This skill is thought to rely on a brain region called the parietal cortex . A long-standing idea in neuroscience is that the parietal cortex processes information by computing how similar or dissimilar things are to each other . However , this idea has been difficult to test because it is hard to measure how similar or dissimilar different stimuli are . Now , Luyckx et al . have developed a new technique to measure the similarity between stimuli . The technique involved asking volunteers to associate different stimuli with different rewards . For example , a volunteer might be asked to associate a red square with a reward of £1 , and a blue square with a reward of £2 . The volunteers then performed a task where they had to decide which of two stimuli was likely to be rewarded with the higher value . Luyckx et al . found that the volunteers associated stimuli with higher rewards with a neural code that was more similar to the mental number line , a way of organizing numbers . The volunteers also associated stimuli with lower rewards with a neural code that was less similar to the mental number line . The results show that the neural code for the mental number line is shared with the neural code for the rewards . This suggests that the brain uses a shared code for both the mental number line and rewards . This may help the brain to learn new things more quickly , because it can use information about the relationships between stimuli to make new inferences . This could help to improve artificial intelligence .
Salmonella bacteria are a common cause of food poisoning . They can survive in the gut and cause illness . Salmonella can also cause infection in the liver , kidneys and brain . Salmonella can also spread to the bloodstream , causing infection in other parts of the body . The bacteria can also cause infection in the bones and joints . In the gut , Salmonella can cause infection in the lining of the gut , which is called the gut lining . The gut lining is made up of cells that are called epithelial cells . These cells form a barrier that prevents Salmonella from spreading to other parts of the body . Salmonella can also cause infection in the lining of the gut by making a hole in the gut lining . This allows Salmonella to escape from the gut and spread to other parts of the body . Once Salmonella has entered the body , it can cause infection in the organs that it spreads to . The bacteria can also cause infection in the blood , which can be very dangerous . The bacteria can also spread to other parts of the body , including the brain . This is often fatal . The bacteria can also cause infection in the bones and joints . This is also very dangerous . Salmonella can cause infection in the gut lining by producing toxins that damage the gut lining . The bacteria can also cause infection in the gut by making a hole in the gut lining . This allows Salmonella to escape from the gut and spread to other parts of the body . The bacteria can also cause infection in the gut by producing a toxin that damages the gut lining . The toxin is called endotoxin . It can also cause infection in the gut by producing a toxin that damages the gut lining . This allows Salmonella to escape from the gut and spread to other parts of the body . The bacteria can also cause infection in the gut by producing a toxin that damages the gut lining . The toxin is called endotoxin . The bacteria can also cause infection in the gut by producing a toxin that damages the gut lining . This allows Salmonella to escape from the gut and spread to other parts of the body . The bacteria can also cause infection in the gut by producing a toxin that damages the gut lining . The toxin is called endotoxin . The bacteria can also cause infection in the gut by producing a toxin that damages the gut lining . This allows Salmonella to escape from the gut and spread to other parts of the body . The bacteria can also cause infection in the gut by producing a toxin that damages the gut lining . This allows Salmonella to escape from the gut and spread to other parts of the body . The bacteria can also cause infection in the gut by producing a toxin that damages the gut lining . This allows Salmonella to escape from the gut and spread to other parts of the body . The bacteria can also cause infection in the gut by producing a toxin that damages the gut lining . This allows Salmonella to escape from the gut and spread to other parts of the body . The bacteria can also cause infection in the gut by producing a toxin that damages the gut lining . This allows Salmonella to escape from the gut and spread to other parts of the body . The bacteria can also cause infection in the gut by producing a toxin that damages the gut lining . This allows Salmonella to escape from the gut and spread to other parts of the body . The bacteria can also cause infection in the gut by producing a toxin that damages the gut lining . This allows Salmonella to escape from the gut and spread to other parts of the body . The bacteria can also cause infection in the gut by producing a toxin that damages the gut lining . This allows Salmonella to escape from the gut and spread to other parts of the body . The bacteria can also cause infection in the gut by producing a toxin that damages the gut lining . This allows Salmonella to escape from the gut and spread to other parts of the body . The bacteria can also cause infection in the gut by producing a toxin that damages the gut lining . This allows Salmonella to escape from the gut and spread to other parts of the body . The bacteria can also cause infection in the gut by producing a toxin that damages the gut lining . This allows
Cancer is caused by the uncontrolled growth of cells in the body. When cancer cells spread to other parts of the body , they are often referred to as metastatic cancer . The most common way for cancer cells to spread is by breaking away from the original tumor and entering the bloodstream , where they can travel to other parts of the body . The cells that break away from the tumor and travel to other parts of the body are called cancer cells . Most anti-cancer treatments act to reduce the multiplication of cancer cells , but not their ability to migrate . This is because the cells that travel to other parts of the body are still cancer cells . Zago et al . wanted to find out if there were any other ways to stop cancer cells from moving around . The researchers found that cancer cells in the body contain a protein called Ras , which is a signal protein that stimulates the cells to grow and move around . This protein is controlled by a group of proteins called Ral . In normal cells , the activity of Ras is tightly controlled , but in cancer cells , the Ras protein is often mutated and becomes permanently active . Zago et al . found that the activity of the Ral proteins is not controlled in cancer cells . This means that cancer cells can move around freely . Zago et al . found that the Ral proteins were overactive in cancer cells that had spread to other parts of the body . This suggests that drugs that target the Ral proteins could be used to stop cancer cells from moving around . The next step is to find out if these drugs are safe and effective in humans .
Cells are made up of many different types of proteins , including actin , which is an important component of the cell membrane and the cell interior . Actin helps the cell move and changes shape to form a new cell . Actin filaments are made up of many actin molecules that are linked together , and they form a lattice-like structure . When an actin filament grows , a new actin molecule is added to the end of the filament , and then another molecule is added to the other end . The rate at which these molecules are added and removed from the filament can be influenced by other proteins that bind to the filament . Crevenna et al . studied how the actin filament grows and how the binding of different proteins to the filament affects its growth . The experiments used a technique called total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy , which allowed the researchers to see the actin filaments in real time and measure their growth . The experiments also showed that the binding of certain proteins to the filament can change the rate at which new actin molecules are added to the end of the filament . In addition , the binding of some proteins can also make the filament bend or curve . Further research is needed to understand how proteins bind to actin filaments and how this affects the way the filaments grow and change shape .
Every cell in our body contains a long molecule of DNA , which contains the instructions for making proteins . The DNA is first copied into a complementary molecule of RNA , and then the RNA is used as a template to make proteins . The process of making proteins is called transcription , and it is a vital step in the life cycle of cells . Transcription is a complex process that involves many molecular interactions , and it is difficult to study in detail because it takes place very quickly . Now , Revyakin et al . have developed a new method that allows the study of transcription in real-time . The method uses a fluorescent probe to detect the RNA molecule , and it works by using a DNA probe to detect the RNA molecule . The DNA probe is attached to a glass slide , and the RNA molecule is detected by a fluorescent camera . The DNA probe is designed to bind to the RNA molecule in a specific way , and this allows the RNA molecule to be detected at the same time as the DNA probe . This new method provides a way to study the molecular interactions involved in transcription in real-time . This can help us to understand how transcription works , and how it is affected by changes in the environment . The method can also be used to study the production of proteins in other living organisms , including bacteria and viruses .
Histones are proteins that help to regulate gene activity by switching genes on or off . The gene activity is controlled by a chemical modification to a specific amino acid called lysine . Lysine is normally modified by enzymes called histone methyltransferases . However , mutations in the genes that code for these enzymes can disrupt the process , leading to a wide range of diseases . For example , a mutation in the gene that codes for a histone methyltransferase called H3K27M is found in many types of brain cancer . This mutation blocks the normal methylation of histones , which can lead to the uncontrolled activation of genes that are involved in cell growth and division . The mechanism by which H3K27M blocks histone methylation is not well understood . Here , Zhang et al . studied a mutation in the gene that codes for a histone called H3K9 in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe . This mutation blocks the methylation of histones and leads to the inhibition of H3K9 methyltransferases . The structure of the mutated histone and the methyltransferase complexes reveals that H3K9M blocks the activity of H3K9 methyltransferases by trapping them at specific sites on the chromosome . The trapping is mediated by a specific interaction between the methionine side chain of H3K9M and the SET domain of the methyltransferase enzyme . These findings suggest that the effects of H3K9M on gene activity can be detoxified by modifying the methionine side chain of H3K9M to make it unable to trap the methyltransferases .
The DNA in every cell of an organism contains the instructions for making proteins , which are the building blocks of life . To make proteins , cells use a molecule called RNA polymerase II ( Pol II ) to read the DNA code and copy it into a molecule called RNA . The RNA is then used to make proteins in the cell . The DNA code is read in a specific order , and Pol II can only make proteins when it reaches the right sequence of DNA . When Pol II reads the DNA code , it pauses at specific locations , called promoters , to make proteins . This process is called transcription . The transcription of DNA into RNA is controlled by proteins called transcription factors , which bind to the DNA and recruit Pol II . Pol II needs to be activated to make proteins , and this is done by a complex of proteins called P-TEFb . A protein called JMJD6 is a part of this complex and helps to recruit the proteins that activate Pol II . JMJD6 is also a protease , which means that it can cut proteins . JMJD6 was first discovered in 1997 , but it has only been studied in the past few years . It was found that JMJD6 can cut a protein called MePCE , which is part of the complex that holds P-TEFb in its inactive form . The discovery of JMJD6’s role in the activation of Pol II has important implications for cancer research . Many cancer cells have genes that are not turned on because the transcription of the genes is inhibited by proteins called tumor suppressors . Understanding how JMJD6 works could help to develop new drugs to overcome these tumor suppressors and activate transcription in cancer cells .
Sexual reproduction is the process by which cells divide to form an embryo . In humans , the sex cells ( eggs and sperm ) are produced from the same cells , which contain two sets of chromosomes . During sexual reproduction , the sex cells exchange genetic information , known as recombination , to create a unique combination of chromosomes . This helps to ensure that the embryo has a healthy mix of genetic diversity . However , the genes that control sexual reproduction are not fully understood . In this study , researchers have identified a protein called ZCWPW1 , which is involved in the exchange of genetic information during sexual reproduction . ZCWPW1 is produced in the cells of mice and is found in the same regions of the genome as the PRDM9 protein . PRDM9 is known to be involved in sexual reproduction and is thought to help exchange genetic information between the sex cells . The researchers found that ZCWPW1 is recruited to the regions of the genome marked by PRDM9 . In mice that do not have ZCWPW1 , the sex cells are unable to exchange genetic information , leading to infertility . These findings suggest that ZCWPW1 may be an important factor in human infertility .
Thread-like structures called chromosomes carry the genetic material inside cells . Female mammals have two X chromosomes , whereas males have one X chromosome . This difference in sex chromosomes is due to a process called X chromosome inactivation . In females , one of the two X chromosomes is randomly inactivated in every cell . This means that half of the cells in a female mammal will have one X chromosome , while the other half will have the other X chromosome . In contrast , males have one X chromosome that is present in every cell . Chromosome inactivation is a process that is not fully understood . A protein called Xist helps to silence the X chromosome in females . Xist is a long non-coding RNA molecule , which is a type of RNA that does not make proteins . Xist is produced in female cells and is present on the X chromosome . The Xist RNA molecule binds to a protein called Spen . The Xist RNA molecule recruits Spen to the X chromosome . This helps to silence the X chromosome . The RNA molecule then travels to other parts of the genome , where it binds to other proteins . This process is known as X chromosome inactivation . The mechanism by which Xist recruits Spen is not fully understood . Now , Sun et al . – including Sun et al . – have shown that Spen binds to RNA molecules that are derived from ancient viruses . This suggests that the Xist RNA molecule may have evolved to bind to viral RNA . This may have allowed the Xist RNA molecule to bind to Spen , which then helps to silence the X chromosome . Sun et al . also found that the Xist RNA molecule binds to a protein called SRA . SRA is another RNA binding protein . This suggests that the Xist RNA molecule may have evolved to bind to SRA , which then recruits Spen . This process is known as a “crosstalk” . Sun et al . also found that the SRA RNA molecule is present in the genome of all mammals . This suggests that the mechanism by which Xist recruits Spen is ancient . This mechanism may have evolved as a way to silence the X chromosome in the early stages of mammalian evolution . These findings provide new insights into the mechanism by which Xist recruits Spen , and how this process helps to silence the X chromosome . The next steps will be to further investigate the mechanisms by which Xist recruits Spen . This will help to understand how X chromosome inactivation works .
The immune system is responsible for recognizing foreign molecules and eliminating them from the body . This process relies on cells called immune cells . Immune cells recognize foreign molecules and form an immunological synapse , which is a specialized compartment that allows the immune cell to exchange information with the foreign molecule . The immunological synapse is formed by the interaction of the immune cell with the foreign molecule and with other molecules within the cell . The process of forming an immunological synapse is complex and requires the coordinated movement of many proteins and molecules . One of the proteins involved in this process is called kinesin-4 KIF21B . KIF21B is a protein that helps to control the movement of other proteins and molecules in cells . KIF21B is also found in the immune cells of animals including humans . Mutations in the KIF21B gene have been linked to a number of neurological disorders . However , it is not clear how KIF21B helps immune cells to form immunological synapses . To investigate this , Hooikaas , Damstra et al . grew immune cells called Jurkat cells in the laboratory and then exposed them to a molecule that stimulated their activity . The cells were then fixed with a chemical to preserve them and were stained with fluorescent dyes to show where the proteins were . The experiments showed that KIF21B is required for immune cells to form immunological synapses and that this is because it helps to control the movement of the proteins that form the synapse . The experiments also showed that KIF21B is important for immune cells to grow long microtubules . These are structures that are found in cells and are involved in the movement of proteins and molecules . The experiments also showed that immune cells that lack KIF21B had difficulty forming immunological synapses . This is because their microtubules were too long , which made it harder for the immune cells to form the synapses . The findings of Hooikaas , Damstra et al . suggest that KIF21B may be a target for new treatments for autoimmune conditions and cancer .
Caenorhabditis elegans is a type of nematode worm that is commonly used in laboratories to study how animals grow and develop . It is a hermaphrodite , meaning it has both male and female reproductive cells . Hermaphrodites can reproduce without mating with another worm , but they can also mate with males to produce offspring . Previous studies have shown that males shorten the lifespan of hermaphrodites , which is known as male-induced demise . In this study , Booth et al . asked how hermaphrodites protect themselves from the negative effects of mating with males . The experiments revealed that young hermaphrodites are resistant to the negative effects of mating with males , even when the interactions are brief . The experiments also revealed that hermaphrodites use a self-sperm to protect themselves . This self-sperm is a type of gamete , or reproductive cell , that hermaphrodites use to fertilize their own eggs . The experiments showed that the self-sperm is not only important for reproduction , but also protects the hermaphrodite from the negative effects of mating with males . The findings suggest that the self-sperm could be used to help hermaphrodites live longer . These findings also suggest that the same mechanism could be used in other species to protect animals from the negative effects of sexual interactions .
Tuberculosis is caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium tuberculosis . It is the leading cause of death by a single microbe worldwide , killing over 1 . 5 million people each year . It is hard to treat , and resistance to the drugs used to treat it is increasingly common . The bacterium has a unique way of surviving in the human body , which makes it hard to find new ways to kill it . One possible strategy to treat tuberculosis is to starve the bacterium . This could be achieved by preventing it from getting the nitrogen it needs to survive . M . tuberculosis uses a protein called nitrogenase to take nitrogen from the air and make amino acids . However , little is known about how nitrogen is used by M . tuberculosis . Now , de Carvalho et al . have investigated nitrogen metabolism in M . tuberculosis and shown that it can take nitrogen from amino acids as well as ammonium , a compound found in the air . The bacterium can use all of the 20 amino acids as nitrogen sources . This makes it hard to target nitrogen metabolism to stop the bacterium growing . It is also hard to understand how the bacterium controls its nitrogen supply , as it does not appear to control its nitrogen stores . This is the first study to investigate nitrogen metabolism in M . tuberculosis . This research could help scientists to understand how nitrogen is used by the bacterium and develop new ways to treat tuberculosis .
When animals are exposed to a lack of oxygen , their cells activate a set of genes called hypoxia-inducible factors ( HIFs ) to help them survive . HIFs are transcription factors , which are proteins that switch on genes that help the cells to survive . One of the best-known HIFs is HIF-3α . HIF-3α is activated when the cell lacks oxygen , and it is a transcription factor that can switch on genes that help the cell to survive . However , it is not known how HIF-3α is activated in animals . Zhang et al . have now shown that HIF-3α is not just a transcription factor that switches on genes that help the cell survive , but also has a new role in early development . HIF-3α was previously known to be an oxygen-dependent transcription factor . However , Zhang et al . have now shown that it is also a transcription factor that switches on genes that help the cells to grow and develop . Zhang et al . have also shown that HIF-3α is involved in early development in a way that is not dependent on oxygen . This is a new role for HIF-3α in animals . The study also revealed that HIF-3α can bind to a protein called β-catenin which is involved in the development of the body . HIF-3α can bind to β-catenin and cause it to be degraded , which in turn leads to a change in the development of the body . This work provides new insights into how HIF-3α works in the body .
Stem cells are a group of cells that have the ability to divide and make new copies of themselves to repair damaged tissue . They also have the ability to differentiate into different types of cells that can perform specific tasks , such as making blood cells or nerve cells . Stem cells are kept in special niches called stem cell niches , which are found throughout the body . These niches are made up of cells that help the stem cells survive and grow . The niches also provide signals that help the stem cells decide to stay in the niche or to leave and differentiate into a new type of cell . In the worm Caenorhabditis elegans , stem cells are found in the gonad , which is the reproductive organ that makes sperm and eggs . The gonad has a stem cell niche that is made up of a group of cells called germ stem cells , which are surrounded by other cells called somatic cells . These germ stem cells divide and produce new sperm or eggs . When the new sperm or eggs are born , they leave the niche and enter the reproductive tract . It was previously thought that the germ stem cells were surrounded by a barrier called a ‘germ line bare region’ that prevented them from leaving the niche . However , this study has shown that germ stem cells are not completely isolated from the somatic cells , and that they divide in a way that allows them to leave the niche . The study also found that a cell called Sh1 is important for the germ stem cells to leave the niche and differentiate . The somatic cells that make up the germ line bare region were previously thought to be inactive , but this study found that they are in fact active and help to guide the germ stem cells to leave the niche .
Living cells are complex structures that contain many different types of molecules , such as proteins , sugars , and fats . To understand how these molecules interact with each other , scientists need to study the interactions of molecules in a living cell . However , it is not possible to directly study the interactions of molecules inside a living cell as it is not possible to isolate and study a single cell in isolation . Instead , scientists have tried to understand the interactions of molecules by studying them in the lab using a combination of experiments and computer simulations . In the lab , scientists can grow a bacterium called Mycoplasma genitalium in a test tube and then use a technique called electron microscopy to visualize the bacterium in detail . Using this technique , scientists have previously shown that the structure of some proteins changes inside the bacterium when it is grown in a crowded environment , which is similar to the environment inside a living cell . To find out more about how this happens , Feig et al . have used computer simulations to study how the proteins inside a crowded bacterium change . The simulations show that the proteins become less stable and more flexible when they are grown in a crowded environment . This is because the proteins are less able to move around in the crowded environment , which means that they become more closely packed together . Feig et al . also show that the proteins in a crowded environment interact with each other more than they do in the lab . This means that the interactions between proteins in a crowded environment are not the same as those in a lab environment . The simulations also show that the proteins in a crowded environment interact with each other in a way that is similar to how they interact with each other in a living cell . This suggests that the interactions between proteins inside a living cell are not just about the volume of the cell , but also about the interactions between the proteins themselves . In the future , scientists will need to develop new ways to study how proteins interact with each other inside a living cell . This could help scientists to develop new drugs that are more effective at targeting the proteins inside a cell .
Influenza viruses infect birds and mammals , including humans . The viruses enter the body through a cell on the surface of the skin . The viruses then spread inside the cell and can cause illness . Influenza viruses are the cause of a common illness known as the flu . The flu can be severe and sometimes fatal . Influenza viruses can also cause other illnesses such as pneumonia , bronchitis , and meningitis . There are several different types of influenza viruses , and each one has its own unique characteristics . One of the most dangerous is the so-called H1N1 subtype . In 2009 , an outbreak of the H1N1 subtype of the influenza virus occurred . This outbreak led to a global pandemic . A new influenza virus vaccine is needed to protect against this virus . However , the production of this vaccine is difficult because the virus mutates easily . Therefore , scientists need to find new ways to produce influenza virus vaccines . A protein called hemagglutinin , which is found on the surface of the influenza virus , is important for the virus to enter the cell . This protein is called the ‘entry protein' . The entry protein is a key target for vaccines . To understand how the entry protein works , it is important to understand how it binds to the cell membrane . It is known that the entry protein binds to a protein called sialic acid on the cell membrane . The entry protein then changes shape and becomes a long , thin structure known as a fusion peptide . The fusion peptide then penetrates the cell membrane and binds to another protein called the sialic acid receptor . This causes the cell membrane to split open and the virus to enter the cell . However , the exact mechanism of how the entry protein changes shape and binds to the cell membrane is not well understood . It is thought that the entry protein works in a similar way to the way that the entry protein of another virus called HIV binds to the cell membrane . HIV is the virus that causes AIDS . The entry protein of HIV is called gp41 . The entry protein of HIV is made up of several proteins called envelope proteins . Each envelope protein is composed of a number of subunits . When the envelope proteins bind to the cell membrane , they form a structure known as the fusion pore . The fusion pore allows the HIV virus to enter the cell . The entry protein of influenza virus is also composed of several subunits . However , unlike HIV , the entry protein of influenza virus is not known to form a fusion pore . Instead , the entry protein of influenza virus is thought to bind to the cell membrane in a way that is similar to the way that the entry protein of HIV binds to the cell membrane . The entry protein of influenza virus is made up of three proteins known as the HA ( hemagglutinin ) , HB , and HC . The HA protein is the main entry protein of the influenza virus . It is known that the HA protein binds to the cell membrane , but it is not clear how the HA protein changes shape to do this . A protein called the HB protein and the HC protein are also important for the entry of influenza virus . They are known to bind to the cell membrane but are not thought to change shape to do so . In the current study , Ivanovic et al . have used a fluorescent dye to track the movement of influenza virus particles as they bind to the cell membrane . This allowed the scientists to see how the entry protein of influenza virus changes shape and binds to the cell membrane . The experiments showed that the HA protein changes shape by folding back on itself . The HA protein also binds to the cell membrane in a way that is similar to the way that the entry protein of HIV binds to the cell membrane . This suggests that the entry protein of influenza virus works in a similar way to the entry protein of HIV . The experiments also revealed that the HA protein changes shape and binds to the cell membrane in a way that is similar to the way that the HB and HC proteins of the influenza virus work . This provides a new insight into how the entry protein of influenza virus works . This could help to develop a new vaccine against the influenza virus .
The human brain contains billions of neurons . Neurons communicate with each other through electrical signals , and these signals are transmitted through a network of connections that connect neurons . However , it is not known how the brain processes these signals and what role the connections play in the network . To find out , researchers must first measure the connections between neurons and then understand how the connections work . However , measuring the connections is difficult because the brain tissue is very complex and the signals are weak . Now , Campagnola et al . have used a new technique to measure the connections between neurons in the human brain . This technique involved using a two-photon laser to stimulate specific neurons in the brain and then measuring the electrical activity of the neurons that received the signal . This allowed the researchers to measure the connections between excitatory neurons in the human brain . The results showed that the connections were sparse , meaning that the connections were only present between a small number of neurons . This was similar to the results obtained from mice . The experiments also showed that the connections were dominated by short-term depression , which is a mechanism that makes neurons less active . This depression could help the brain to reduce the number of connections between neurons . However , the experiments also showed that the connections could be reversed by increasing calcium levels in the brain . This suggests that other mechanisms are also important . Further work is needed to understand how the connections work in the human brain .
Males of many species engage in aggressive behavior when they perceive a threat to their territory or a potential mate . These behaviors are important for survival and reproduction . However , very little is known about the neural circuits that control them . In fruit flies , researchers have identified a group of neurons in the brain that are known to promote courtship behavior . However , it was previously thought that these neurons did not play a role in aggression . The experiments described in this paper show that these neurons also promote aggression . Furthermore , the experiments reveal that the two behaviors are triggered by different neural circuits . The neurons that promote aggression are located in a region of the brain that controls courtship and aggression . The experiments also reveal that aggression is triggered by a fly-intrinsic state that is not dependent on social interactions .
Chromosomes are thread-like structures of DNA found in all living organisms . They contain the genes , which are the instructions for making proteins and other molecules that are necessary for life . Each chromosome is made up of a long thread of DNA that is coiled around a protein called histone . Chromosomes are inherited from the parents and are passed on to offspring . When cells divide , each cell produces a new set of chromosomes , which are made up of one of each of the chromosomes from the parent cells . This process is called meiosis . Meiosis is a process that allows organisms to produce new offspring that are genetically different from their parents . Chromosomes are also inherited in pairs , with one chromosome inherited from each parent . During meiosis , chromosomes swap genetic information , which can lead to new combinations of genes . This is known as recombination . Recombination is important for genetic diversity , as it can introduce new genes and changes in genes . However , it is not clear how often recombination occurs in plants . Wijnker et al . studied the recombination of chromosomes in the plant Arabidopsis thaliana . Arabidopsis thaliana is a small plant that is often used as a model organism to study how genes are inherited and how plants develop . Wijnker et al . used a technique called short-read sequencing to study the recombination of chromosomes in 20 tetrads ( four plants from one parent and four plants from the other parent ) . This allowed Wijnker et al . to identify 137 recombination events in the tetrads . However , Wijnker et al . found that most of these events were not associated with new combinations of genes . Instead , they were associated with small changes in the DNA sequence . Wijnker et al . also found that recombination was more likely to occur in regions of DNA that are not bound by proteins called nucleosomes . This suggests that recombination is more likely to occur in regions of DNA that are not bound by nucleosomes . The findings of Wijnker et al . suggest that recombination is more common in plants than previously thought . This could have important implications for how plants evolve .
The ability to perform a motor task is known to decline when a person is physically tired or fatigued . However , it is not clear how fatigue affects learning new movements . Here , Branscheidt et al . investigate how fatigue affects learning a new motor skill and show that fatigue reduces the ability to learn a new movement . The experiments also reveal that fatigue impairs learning in individuals who have not yet been fatigued . The experiments also show that fatigue does not affect learning a task that requires less force to perform . The results suggest that fatigue affects how well people can learn a new movement . Further research is needed to understand why fatigue affects learning and to develop ways to help people learn new movements even after they have become fatigued .
DNA is constantly being damaged by chemicals in the environment and by the natural process of cell division . To protect themselves , cells have a built-in repair system that can fix damaged DNA . If a cell is unable to fix DNA damage , the DNA can become damaged and lead to mutations that cause cancer . Some of the most effective treatments for cancer are drugs that disrupt the DNA repair system . However , these drugs are not always effective , and cancer cells can develop resistance to them . Now , Leland et al . have used a new imaging technique to study DNA repair in living cells . This technique allowed Leland et al . to show that two proteins called Rev7 and Crb2 can stop cells from repairing DNA by inhibiting a specific pathway . When these proteins are lost , the cells become more vulnerable to DNA-damaging drugs . This suggests that targeting the pathway that these protections control could make cancer cells more sensitive to DNA repair-disrupting drugs . This could lead to new treatments for cancer that are more effective and less likely to cause resistance .
All living things have a unique genetic sequence that determines how their cells work and grow . This sequence is made up of four chemical letters: A , C , G , and T . But sometimes , errors occur when these letters are not correctly paired , or when a letter is added or removed . This is known as a mutation . Some mutations can be beneficial , but others can be harmful . They can also cause genetic diseases . Genetic variation refers to the differences in genetic sequences among individuals of the same species . Genetic variation is important because it allows species to adapt to changing environments . For example , if a species is exposed to a new disease , mutations that protect against the disease may spread through the population . But , in some cases , mutations may have no effect on the ability of an individual to survive or reproduce . Genetic variation is also important because it can lead to the evolution of new species . For example , when a species splits into two populations , the genetic variation between the two populations may eventually lead to the evolution of new species . The worm Caenorhabditis elegans is a useful model for studying genetic variation . It has a relatively simple genome and is easy to manipulate . Paaby et al . used a technique called a ‘modifier screen’ to study the genetic variation in C . elegans embryogenesis . This technique involved altering the function of genes in the worms and then observing how many offspring survived . Paaby et al . found that many of the genes were not always mutationally silent . In other words , mutations in these genes could lead to the survival of some offspring but not others . This was because the worms had many genes that were not always active . Paaby et al . also found that many of the genes that were not always active were not always in the same place . Some genes were active in one location , while others were active in a different location . This means that genetic variation is not always predictable . It is also not always easy to understand the effects of mutations on an individual . The findings of Paaby et al . highlight the importance of genetic variation in evolution . They also suggest that it is important to consider the effects of genetic variation when developing new drugs .
Bacteria are the most abundant form of life on Earth and are present in almost every environment. They can be beneficial, causing fermentation to make foods like yogurt and bread, or harmful, causing food poisoning. They can also be used to produce useful chemicals such as antibiotics and biofuels. Bacteria are single-celled organisms, so each one can have a different metabolism and produce different products. However , it is not known how different cells within a bacterial population can respond to the same environmental stimuli and produce different products. Rosenthal et al . have now used fluorescent markers to track the metabolism of single cells of the bacterium Bacillus subtilis . This revealed that the bacteria divide into two distinct subpopulations that can produce different metabolic products . This study shows that cells can specialize in different metabolic processes and could help to improve industrial fermentation processes .
When a cell divides to form two new cells , it must first copy its DNA . This process is known as DNA replication . When DNA replication is disrupted , the resulting break can be repaired by a process called recombination . Recombination can also be caused by a process known as DNA repair , which is a natural process that helps to fix errors in DNA . In this process , proteins are recruited to the DNA break and repair proteins load onto the DNA strands . DNA repair is often seen as a way to fix errors in DNA , but it can also drive genetic change . The process of DNA repair is often seen as a way to fix errors in DNA , but it can also drive genetic change . The DNA repair process is often seen as a way to fix errors in DNA , but it can also drive genetic change . However , the role of DNA repair in driving genetic change is not well understood . A recent study has shown that a protein called Rad52 is required to repair DNA when DNA replication is disrupted . The DNA repair process is often seen as a way to fix errors in DNA , but it can also drive genetic change . The DNA repair process is often seen as a way to fix errors in DNA , but it can also drive genetic change . The DNA repair process is often seen as a way to fix errors in DNA , but it can also drive genetic change . Now , Cardenas-Orta et al . have investigated the role of DNA repair in driving genetic change . Cardenas-Orta et al . have used a technique called time-lapse microscopy to study DNA repair in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe . This technique allows the movements of cells to be tracked over time . The results show that DNA repair is often seen as a way to fix errors in DNA , but it can also drive genetic change . The DNA repair process is often seen as a way to fix errors in DNA , but it can also drive genetic change . The DNA repair process is often seen as a way to fix errors in DNA , but it can also drive genetic change . The results show that Rad52 is recruited to DNA breaks within 10 minutes of them forming . Rad52 is a protein that is required to repair DNA when DNA replication is disrupted . The DNA repair process is often seen as a way to fix errors in DNA , but it can also drive genetic change . The DNA repair process is often seen as a way to fix errors in DNA , but it can also drive genetic change . The DNA repair process is often seen as a way to fix errors in DNA , but it can also drive genetic change . The results show that Rad52 is recruited to DNA breaks within 10 minutes of them forming . Rad52 is a protein that is required to repair DNA when DNA replication is disrupted . The results also show that DNA repair can drive genetic change . However , this is not a major concern in fission yeast , as cells can survive with unrepaired DNA . These results suggest that DNA repair can drive genetic change . However , this is not a major concern in fission yeast , as cells can survive with unrepaired DNA . This is an important finding , as it suggests that DNA repair is not only a way to fix errors in DNA , but also a way to drive genetic change .
Humans have 46 chromosomes , each consisting of two copies of DNA . Chromosomes are paired in a process called meiosis , which occurs in sexually reproducing animals . The process of meiosis involves the breaking of DNA strands and the recombination of the broken strands to form new combinations . The recombination of DNA strands can result in genetic changes , which can lead to differences in the characteristics of an individual . This process is thought to be important in shaping the genetic diversity of a population . The genetic changes that occur during meiosis are known as mutations , and the process of recombination is called recombination . Recombination occurs through two types of events: crossovers and non-crossovers . Crossovers are events in which the DNA strands break and then recombine . Non-crossovers are events in which the DNA strands are broken and then recombined but do not form a new combination . Non-crossovers are also known as gene conversions . Gene conversions occur when a segment of one chromosome is converted into a segment of another chromosome . Non-crossovers are not as well understood as crossovers . Williams et al . have now analyzed a database of DNA sequences from 482 individuals in a Mexican American population . This revealed that non-crossovers occur more frequently than previously thought . The DNA sequences also showed that non-crossovers are more likely to occur in regions of high recombination . This suggests that non-crossovers may play a role in shaping the genetic diversity of a population . Further studies will be needed to confirm this hypothesis .
DNA damage is a major threat to cells and if left unrepaired can lead to cancer . The process of repairing DNA damage is complex and involves several steps . One step in repair is called non-homologous end joining , which is carried out by a group of proteins called the DNA damage response . One of the proteins in this group is called XRCC4 , and it is known to be involved in repairing DNA damage caused by radiation . However , the exact role of XRCC4 and another DNA repair protein called XLF is not well understood . XRCC4 and XLF work together to repair DNA damage . They form complexes that wrap around the damaged DNA and then break the DNA in two . The XRCC4 and XLF complexes then repair the DNA by copying the damaged DNA onto a healthy DNA template . XRCC4 and XLF are both phosphorylated by a protein called DNA-PKcs when DNA is damaged . The phosphorylation of XRCC4 and XLF is important for their DNA repair function . However , the role of the phosphorylated tails of XRCC4 and XLF in DNA repair is not well understood . XRCC4 and XLF are phosphorylated on the tail regions of their C-terminal ends . To find out more about the role of these phosphorylated tails , the researchers used biochemical and cell-based approaches . These experiments revealed that the phosphorylated tails of XRCC4 and XLF are important for DNA repair . In particular , the phosphorylated tails of XRCC4 and XLF stabilized the interaction between the DNA and the DNA repair complexes . In addition , the phosphorylated tails of XRCC4 and XLF also promoted the DNA repair process . The researchers also found that the phosphorylated tails of XRCC4 and XLF were required for the DNA repair process in cells exposed to radiation . In conclusion , the phosphorylated tails of XRCC4 and XLF are important for DNA repair and may be a target for cancer therapies .
The p21 protein is a protein that helps to protect cells from becoming cancerous . It does this by preventing DNA damage from being replicated in a way that damages the DNA . The p21 protein is also known as p21 CDKN1A . Cells have a mechanism to repair DNA damage and prevent it from becoming cancerous . This mechanism is called DNA replication . The p21 protein helps to regulate the replication of DNA and prevent cells from becoming cancerous . The p21 protein is produced in large amounts when DNA is damaged , but it is produced in smaller amounts when DNA replication is not needed . The p21 protein is a protein that is produced by a gene that is located on chromosome 6 . This means that the p21 protein is inherited from both parents and is present in all cells of an organism . It is important to understand how the p21 protein helps to protect cells from becoming cancerous . In this study , Mansilla et al . show that the p21 protein can also act to help cells replicate DNA . This is done by preventing the alternative polymerase Pol κ from being recruited to the DNA replication sites . The alternative polymerase Pol κ can cause DNA to be replicated in a way that damages the DNA . This is important for the p21 protein to protect the DNA from becoming cancerous . The p21 protein can also help to protect cells from becoming cancerous by preventing the DNA from being replicated in a way that damages the DNA . The p21 protein helps to protect cells from becoming cancerous by regulating DNA replication .
More than 10 million people worldwide are estimated to be living with Parkinson's disease. This is a condition that affects the brain and causes problems with movement, including tremors, stiffness, and difficulty walking. Parkinson's disease is caused by the death of brain cells, which is triggered by a lack of energy in cells. The energy that cells need to work comes from the mitochondria, which are often referred to as the “powerhouses” of cells. In people with Parkinson's disease, the mitochondria are damaged, which means that they are unable to provide enough energy to the cells. The mitochondria are often damaged by a process called oxidative stress, which is caused by the buildup of toxic chemicals in the cells. One way to reduce oxidative stress is to remove damaged mitochondria from cells. This process is called autophagy. It is also known that some people with Parkinson's disease have mutations in a protein called PINK1, which is important for the process of autophagy. PINK1 is found in many organisms, including humans, and is known to play a role in the removal of damaged mitochondria. Scientists have now created a three-dimensional model of the PINK1 protein from the flour beetle Tribolium castaneum, which is easier to study in the laboratory than the human protein. This has revealed that the PINK1 protein has three unique loop regions that are responsible for its activity and interaction with other proteins. It is hoped that these findings will help to develop new treatments for Parkinson's disease.
Dengue fever is a common disease caused by a virus that is transmitted by mosquitoes . It can cause fever , muscle and joint pain , and a skin rash . In some cases , it can lead to a severe form of the disease called dengue hemorrhagic fever ( DHF ) , which can cause bleeding and can be fatal . In severe cases , patients with DHF can develop vascular leakage , which is when blood vessels leak and blood enters the surrounding tissues . In this study , the authors found that mast cells—a type of immune cell—play a role in the development of vascular leakage during dengue fever . The authors found that mast cells are activated in mice infected with dengue fever , and that this leads to the release of chemicals that cause blood vessels to leak . In addition , the authors found that patients with DHF have higher levels of a chemical called chymase , which is produced by mast cells , in their blood . These findings suggest that mast cells may play a role in the development of vascular leakage during dengue fever . Further studies are needed to determine whether mast cells are involved in the development of vascular leakage during dengue fever , and to identify drugs that may be used to treat the disease .
Alexander disease is a rare and fatal brain disorder caused by a mutation in a gene called GFAP (glial fibrillary acidic protein). This mutation causes GFAP to build up in the brain and form clumps called Rosenthal fibers, which interfere with the normal functioning of brain cells. These clumps are found in all patients with Alexander disease, but the severity of the disease varies depending on the type of mutation. The most severe form of Alexander disease is usually associated with a shorter life span , while the mildest form is associated with a longer life span . Now , Snider et al . have found that some mutations in GFAP are associated with a specific type of phosphorylation , which is a chemical change to the protein that helps it to work better . This phosphorylation is also associated with the accumulation of GFAP in the brain and with the formation of the Rosenthal fibers . Phosphorylation is a common way that proteins are regulated in the body , but it is not clear how it works in Alexander disease . Snider et al . have also found that a protein called caspase-6 is associated with the most severe form of Alexander disease . Caspase-6 is known to break down proteins , and Snider et al . have shown that it can also break down GFAP . This suggests that caspase-6 may be involved in the formation of Rosenthal fibers . Further research is needed to determine whether caspase-6 is involved in the most severe form of Alexander disease and to find out how phosphorylation of GFAP contributes to Alexander disease .
Malaria , dengue and Zika are all spread by mosquitoes . These diseases kill over half a million people each year . Reducing the number of mosquitoes is important for preventing these diseases . Currently , the most effective way to do this is to spray insecticides into the air or use mosquito nets . However , these methods can be expensive and may harm the environment . A cheaper alternative is to use mosquitoes’ natural predators . To find these predators , scientists need to know where the mosquitoes are . This can be difficult because mosquitoes can be hard to find . A new method has been developed to identify the species of mosquitoes by the sounds they make . The first step is to record the sounds of different mosquito species . The next step is to match the sounds to a database of known mosquito sounds . The final step is to use the data collected by volunteers with mobile phones to map the distribution of the mosquitoes . This method could be used to find the mosquitoes in any area , even in places where it is hard to find them . The method can also be used to monitor how many mosquitoes there are , and how their populations change over time . It could also be used to find out whether mosquitoes are resistant to insecticides . This could help scientists develop new methods to control mosquito populations .
The immune system is a network of cells and proteins that work together to protect the body from disease . It is made up of different types of cells , including white blood cells , which are enlisted in the immune response . White blood cells can recognize and destroy infected cells and foreign substances , including bacteria and viruses . This process is called an immune response . White blood cells are activated when host cells are damaged or stressed , or when foreign molecules indicating the presence of microbes and pathogens are detected . The immune system can also recognize self-proteins , which are proteins produced by the body . White blood cells recognize self-proteins and ignore them , unless they are infected by a pathogen . This means that white blood cells only attack foreign substances and not the body’s own proteins . However , the immune system can sometimes mistakenly attack the body’s own proteins , which can lead to autoimmune diseases . For example , rheumatoid arthritis and lupus are autoimmune diseases that occur when white blood cells attack the body’s own proteins . This is why it is important to understand how the immune system recognizes foreign substances and ignores self-proteins . The immune system uses a protein called MHC class II to recognize infected cells and foreign substances . MHC class II is a protein found on the surface of white blood cells . It binds to a protein fragment called peptides that come from the body’s own proteins . When the immune system recognizes a foreign protein , it can then target the peptide and the infected cell . The immune system also uses MHC class II to recognize a protein called gp250 , which is produced by a common virus called the influenza virus . The MHC class II molecule that binds gp250 is called I-Ek . The I-Ek molecule is found on the surface of white blood cells , and it helps to trigger the immune response . Lo et al . wanted to understand how the immune system recognizes a protein fragment and how it ignores self-proteins . To do this , Lo et al . studied the immune response of mice that had been genetically modified to express a protein called gp250 . The mice were bred to have a gene that encoded the gp250 protein . The gene was added to the mouse’s genes , which altered their genetic code . The mice were then tested for their immune response . The results showed that mice that expressed gp250 had a much stronger immune response than mice that did not have the gene . This suggests that the immune system recognizes gp250 as a foreign protein , and that it is able to trigger an immune response . The study also showed that the immune system ignores the body’s own proteins , even when they are produced in large quantities . This is because the immune system can only bind to the gp250 protein and not to other proteins that are produced by the body . The study by Lo et al . provides new insights into how the immune system recognizes and ignores self-proteins . It shows that the immune system is able to trigger a strong immune response against foreign substances , but it is also able to ignore self-proteins . This knowledge can help to develop new treatments for autoimmune diseases .
The brain processes information from the body and from the environment . The brain maps this information onto a network of areas that respond to specific sensations . For example , the brain has a map that responds to the touch of a hand . The brain maps each finger of the hand onto a specific area of the brain . The maps are so detailed that the brain can tell the difference between a finger and the thumb . The brain is able to do this because the brain is highly specialized . It is made up of many different areas that are each responsible for a specific task . These areas are connected by a network of nerve fibers that allow the brain to process information . The brain is able to adapt to changes in the body , such as the loss of a hand , by reorganizing the map of the hand . However , it was previously thought that the brain would completely reorganize the map of the hand after the loss of a hand . The new study shows that this is not always the case . The brain is able to keep the map of the hand intact even after a hand has been lost for many years . This means that the brain may be able to recreate the map of the hand in the future . This could be useful for people who have lost a hand and want to control a prosthetic hand .
The genes in our bodies contain instructions to make proteins . These instructions are written in DNA , which is made up of four chemical letters ( A , C , G , and T ) . Each letter represents a different amino acid . When a gene is turned on , a protein is produced from the DNA instructions . However , the instructions for making a protein can be altered to produce different versions of the protein . This process is called alternative splicing . This can happen because some of the DNA instructions are not included in the final protein . The proteins produced by alternative splicing are called isoforms . Each isoform contains a different combination of amino acids . In the epidermis , the outermost layer of our skin , alternative splicing can change the way that proteins are produced . This can help the epidermis to respond to different conditions , such as injury or infection . The epidermis also has many functions . For example , it stops bacteria from entering the body , and it helps to regulate the amount of water in the body . The epidermis is also the first line of defense against the sun . In this study , the researchers studied the role of a protein called Esrp1 and Esrp2 in alternative splicing in the epidermis . The two proteins are known to be important for alternative splicing in the epidermis . The researchers first looked at how the Esrps were involved in alternative splicing in a laboratory . They then made mice that did not have the Esrps . The mice were then examined to see if they had any defects . The researchers found that the mice that did not have the Esrps had a skin defect . The skin of these mice was thinner and had fewer hair follicles . The researchers also found that the mice that did not have the Esrps had a defect in the development of their epidermis . These findings suggest that the Esrps are important for the development of the epidermis . The researchers then used a technique called RNA sequencing to look at the alternative splicing of genes in the epidermis of the mice . This showed that the epidermis of the mice that did not have the Esrps was producing different versions of proteins than the epidermis of the mice that had the Esrps . This suggests that the Esrps help to control the alternative splicing of genes in the epidermis . The researchers also found that the Esrps work with other proteins to control alternative splicing . This is important for the development of the epidermis and the maintenance of the epidermis in the body . The researchers hope that this work will lead to a better understanding of how the epidermis is formed and how it can be treated if it becomes damaged .
In the United States, about 40% of adults have obesity, a condition in which the body has too much fat and the risk of developing health problems increases . Obesity is a major risk factor for heart disease , stroke , and diabetes . The main reason for obesity is eating too much and not exercising enough . People with obesity often struggle to lose weight and maintain weight loss over time . In fact , many people with obesity have tried to lose weight using different methods and still struggle to keep the weight off . The body has a system to control how much energy it uses and how much energy it stores . This system is called metabolism . If the body’s metabolism is working properly , it can prevent weight gain . However , people with obesity have a lower metabolism than those who are not obese , which makes it harder to maintain weight loss . This is why people with obesity have a higher risk of developing health problems . New drugs that can help people lose weight and maintain weight loss are being developed . One such drug is called lipodystrophy-causing neuropeptide 2 ( LCN2 ) . Mice that have a mutation in a gene that produces LCN2 do not develop obesity . In addition , these mice eat less and are healthier than mice that do not have the mutation . LCN2 can also prevent weight gain in mice . Now , Petropoulou et al . have tested whether LCN2 works in humans . The experiments involved giving mice and monkeys LCN2 and measuring how much they ate . Petropoulou et al . then tested LCN2 in humans and monkeys . The results showed that LCN2 is a natural hormone in the body that controls appetite . When people with obesity have more LCN2 , they eat less and lose weight . However , people with normal weight or overweight have a different response to LCN2 . These experiments show that LCN2 could be a potential treatment for obesity . Future studies will be needed to find out whether LCN2 is safe to use in humans .
Mice use their whiskers to navigate through dark underground burrows and winding corridors . The whiskers are long , flexible hairs that are found on the face , and are sensitive to touch and pressure . The whiskers are also highly sensitive to the distance between the mouse and nearby objects . This makes them useful for navigating through dark spaces . To understand how the whiskers are used for navigation , it is important to understand the brain signals that guide the whiskers . The whiskers are located in the barrel cortex , a part of the brain that is sensitive to touch . The barrel cortex contains several layers of neurons , with the upper layers receiving signals from the whiskers and the lower layers processing the signals . It is difficult to study the brain signals in the barrel cortex because mice are not able to be trained to perform specific behaviors while they are navigating . To overcome this problem , Sofroniew et al . used a virtual reality system that allowed mice to run through a winding corridor while the walls were moved in and out of reach . The system could be controlled to simulate the contact that the whiskers would have with the walls of a winding corridor . The experiments showed that the signals in the barrel cortex were able to tell the mouse when it was close to a wall . The signals were also able to tell the mouse which direction the wall was moving . The experiments also showed that the mouse was able to navigate through the winding corridor using only the signals from the whiskers . The experiments suggest that the brain is able to use signals from the whiskers to navigate through the dark spaces , and that the brain is able to use the signals to control the whiskers to move the mouse in the right direction . This research is an important step towards understanding how the brain controls the whiskers and the behavior of mice .
The immune system is responsible for protecting the body from dangerous microbes and removing damaged cells . The immune system also helps to control the body's response to infections and autoimmune diseases , which occur when the immune system attacks the body's own tissues . Autoimmune diseases include multiple sclerosis , type 1 diabetes , and rheumatoid arthritis . Currently , there are no treatments for autoimmune diseases that can prevent the immune system from attacking the body's own tissues . However , researchers are developing new treatments that use small pieces of proteins called peptides to target specific immune cells that attack the body's own tissues . These peptides are designed to work by blocking the action of a molecule called PD-1 , which is found on the surface of the immune cells . PD-1 prevents immune cells from attacking the body's own tissues . In the current study , the researchers used peptides to target immune cells that attack the protein myelin basic protein . The researchers found that these peptides were effective in preventing the immune cells from attacking the body's own tissues in mice that had multiple sclerosis . The peptides also prevented the immune cells from producing cytokines , which are chemicals that stimulate the immune response . The peptides were effective in preventing the immune cells from entering the brain , which is one of the key features of multiple sclerosis . The peptides were also effective in preventing the immune cells from producing a protein called PD-1 . This protein is important for the immune cells to be able to attack the body's own tissues . These findings suggest that the peptides may be effective in treating autoimmune diseases . However , more studies are needed to understand the mechanisms of how the peptides work .
The main subject of the text is the consumption of wild cereal grains by ancient foragers in Europe before the advent of agriculture. The text states that foragers in the central Balkans were already consuming certain species of wild cereal grains 11,500 years ago, before agriculture arrived in Europe.
Cancer is a disease caused by cells growing uncontrollably . It develops when normal cells acquire genetic mutations that cause them to divide rapidly and ignore signals from other cells . The goal of researchers studying genetic changes in cancer is to gain a better understanding of how cancer cells start to develop by studying and cataloging the genetic changes found in different types of cancers . Ni and Kuperwasser studied the genetic changes in breast cancer cells . They found that breast cancer cells contain a protein called MAGI3 . This protein is important for controlling the growth of cells . In healthy cells , MAGI3 helps to prevent cells from growing too quickly . However , in cancer cells , MAGI3 is often shortened . This shortened protein was found to be a key player in the growth of breast cancer cells . Ni and Kuperwasser also discovered that shortened MAGI3 proteins can be created in cancer cells by a mechanism called premature polyadenylation . This occurs when the genetic code for a protein is interrupted , causing the protein to be cut off too early . The resulting protein is then unable to function properly . Ni and Kuperwasser also found that premature polyadenylation of MAGI3 was present in 7 . 5% of breast cancers . This is a significant proportion . Further research is needed to understand the role of premature polyadenylation in cancer . It is also important to determine whether premature polyadenylation is a mechanism that occurs in other types of cancer .
When you see your favorite dessert , you might find yourself wanting to eat it immediately . This is an example of how seeing something can trigger an instinctive urge to eat it . But what exactly triggers this urge is not clear . The visual system of animals has an innate ability to recognize objects and respond instinctively . For example , when a zebrafish larva sees a small moving dot , it swims towards the object . Scientists have now identified the brain circuits that trigger this behavior . These circuits are hardwired into the brain of zebrafish larvae , and the same circuits are present in mammals . This means that the instinctive behavior of swimming towards a small moving object is not simply an instinctive response to the object , but is also hardwired into the brain . In the future , scientists could use this information to better understand how the brain processes visual information .
In social insects, such as ants, bees, and wasps, individuals work together to build and maintain a superorganism , which is a group of individuals that work together to achieve more than they could on their own . This allows these insects to survive and reproduce in environments that would be hostile to individuals on their own . Social insects have evolved a system of communication that allows them to share food and other resources . This system is called trophallaxis , and it is thought to help individuals in a colony share nutrients and information . However , it is not clear how trophallaxis helps social insects survive . To investigate this , LeBoeuf et al . collected trophallactic fluid from ant colonies and analyzed the proteins that are present in this fluid . They found that the proteins in trophallactic fluid differ between the young and mature colonies , and between the workers that are nursing the queen and the workers that are foraging for food . LeBoeuf et al . suggest that these differences could help the queen and the workers survive and reproduce in different ways . For example , the proteins that are present in the trophallactic fluid may help the queen to live longer than the workers , or they may help the workers to store nutrients for the queen . This study provides a new perspective on how social insects survive . It also shows that the proteins in trophallactic fluid could be used to study how social insects evolved .
Proteins are dynamic structures that perform a wide range of functions in the body . Understanding how proteins change shape is important for understanding how they work and how they interact with other molecules . Proteins are so complex that it is difficult to measure their shape and movement using a single experiment . This makes it difficult to study protein dynamics . To overcome this problem , scientists use a technique called X-ray crystallography , which involves taking a picture of a protein crystal . The technique provides detailed information about the positions of the atoms in the crystal , but does not reveal how the atoms move . To study the movement of the atoms , scientists use computer simulations . This method is called molecular dynamics . However , it is difficult to obtain accurate information about the movement of the atoms in a protein using molecular dynamics . To overcome this problem , scientists have developed a new method that uses the X-ray data to predict the movement of the atoms in a protein . The method is called ensemble refinement . It works by using the X-ray data to generate a large number of different models of the protein . The models are then combined to produce a single model that represents the movements of the atoms in the protein . The new method has been tested on a group of 20 proteins . It was found that the method is effective in improving the accuracy of the models and in revealing the movement of the atoms in the proteins . This could help scientists to better understand the role of protein dynamics in biological processes . For example , it could help scientists to understand how proteins change shape when they bind to a drug . It could also help to develop new drugs that target specific proteins .
Holoprosencephaly is a birth defect that affects the development of the brain and face in a fetus . It is caused by mutations in genes that control the development of the brain and face . Some of these genes are known to be involved in the production of hormones that help to develop the face and brain . However , the specific role of these genes is not yet fully understood . Hong et al . have now found that a gene called Cdon is also involved in the production of hormones that control the development of the brain and face . The researchers also found that exposure to alcohol in the womb can affect the development of the brain and face in mice . This suggests that alcohol could be a risk factor for holoprosencephaly . Hong et al . also found that Cdon interacts with genes that control the production of hormones that help to develop the brain and face . This means that Cdon and other genes involved in the production of hormones work together to control the development of the brain and face . These findings suggest that many genes work together to produce holoprosencephaly .
Water is essential for life . The body maintains a balance of water by drinking when it is thirsty , and producing a hormone called vasopressin when it needs to release water . When the body detects that there is not enough water , vasopressin is released to help the kidneys reabsorb water back into the blood . The production of vasopressin is controlled by a brain region called the hypothalamus . It is not clear how the hypothalamus detects when the body needs water and how it controls vasopressin release . Now , Kim et al . have used a technique called optogenetics to examine the brain circuits that control vasopressin production in mice . The experiments show that vasopressin production is regulated by two separate brain circuits . The first circuit is responsible for detecting when the body needs water , and it is activated by signals from the hypothalamus . The second circuit is activated when the body has already drunk too much water , and it is responsible for releasing vasopressin . The two circuits work together to ensure that the body has enough water at all times . In the future , these findings could be used to develop new treatments for diseases that are caused by problems with the hypothalamus . For example , the two circuits could be used to treat people with dehydration who do not drink enough water .
The ‘Grotta della Bàsura’ cave system in Italy contains ancient footprints that are about 14,000 years old. These traces were left by humans and their ancestors as they explored the cave system. The earliest traces of humans were found in a chamber deep within the cave system and date back to around 12,000 years ago. These ancient footprints show that people were exploring the cave system for unknown reasons. The tracks also reveal that the humans had to crawl through a low tunnel, which was previously undocumented in the fossil record. The findings suggest that the group of Stone Age humans was heterogeneous and included both adults and children. This discovery supports the idea that the human curiosity and exploration of new environments was not always driven by subsistence requirements, but also by fun and frivolous activities.
Fruit flies and humans can learn from past experiences and use that knowledge to predict future events . For example , a fruit fly larva may learn to associate the smell of carbon dioxide with a food source . When the larva is placed near carbon dioxide , it will avoid it . But if the larva is later placed near carbon dioxide without a food source , it will seek it out . This is called associative learning . While fruit flies have been studied extensively in the lab , little is known about how they learn and how this process compares to human learning . Now , Lesar et al . have created a new tool to measure the associative learning of fruit flies . This tool allows researchers to test whether individual fruit flies have learned from past experiences . It also shows that fruit flies learn in a single step or ‘jump’ , rather than gradually . The experiments also show that fruit flies can form long-lasting memories of associative learning . Further , the experiments reveal that fruit flies can form memories that are resistant to forgetting , which could be important for understanding how the brain processes and stores memories .
Bats use a technique called echolocation to navigate through the dark. They emit a high-frequency sound and listen to the echoes that bounce back from objects in their environment. The echoes contain information about the distance, shape, and size of the objects. But it is unclear how bats use this information to recognize the places they regularly visit. Now , Vanderelst et al . have investigated how bats recognize places by listening to echoes from a variety of locations in the wild . The experiments revealed that bats can recognize places even if they cannot identify specific objects or vegetation . The echoes also contain information about the distance between the bat and the objects . This information can be used to create a template that represents the echoes of a specific place . Bats may use this template to navigate to a specific place . The template-based navigation strategy proposed by Vanderelst et al . could be useful for the development of robots that use echolocation to navigate .
Cells produce proteins by making them in the cytoplasm and then transporting them out of the cell and into the extracellular space . Proteins are made up of chains of amino acids , which are linked together by peptide bonds . Proteins perform a wide range of functions , including helping cells to communicate with one another and triggering the immune system . Cells need a way to transport proteins across the cell membrane , which separates the cytoplasm from the extracellular space . This process is called protein secretion . The protein secretion process is carried out by a protein called Sec . Sec is made of ten subunits , called SecYEG , and SecA , which binds to the SecYEG subunits . SecA is a molecule that contains an enzyme called ATPase , which uses the energy from ATP molecules to drive the secretion process . SecA binds to the SecYEG subunits of Sec . The ATPase enzyme is activated when the SecA subunit binds to the SecYEG subunits . This makes the SecYEG subunits open up and allow the protein chain to pass through . The SecYEG subunits then close again and the ATPase enzyme releases the ATP molecules . Sec is found in all forms of life , from bacteria to humans . However , it is not clear how the Sec protein complex works . Now , Allen , Corey , Oatley et al . have used a combination of experiments and computer simulations to study the Sec complex . Allen , Corey , Oatley et al . used a technique called all-atom molecular dynamics to study the SecYEG-SecA complex . This involves simulating the movements of the SecYEG and SecA subunits at the atomic level . Allen , Corey , Oatley et al . also used single-molecule fluorescence to study the SecYEG-SecA complex . These experiments revealed that the SecYEG subunits and SecA subunit are coupled together by a narrow passageway . When the SecA subunit binds to the SecYEG subunits , the passageway opens up . When the SecA subunit releases the ATP molecules , the passageway closes . Allen , Corey , Oatley et al . also used biochemical assays to study the SecYEG-SecA complex . These experiments showed that the opening and closing of the passageway is triggered by the release of ATP molecules . This provides a mechanism for the Sec protein complex to couple the ATPase enzyme to the transport of proteins across the membrane . These findings suggest that the Sec protein complex may be a promising target for drugs that specifically target bacteria . They also suggest that Sec proteins may be able to be used to develop new drugs that target bacteria .
As animals get older , their brains and other body parts change to prepare them for reproduction . This process is called sexual maturation . In some animals , such as mammals , males and females have different brains and different behaviors . For example , males typically have more muscles and a more aggressive personality , while females tend to be more nurturing . Scientists do not know why these differences occur , but they think that it might be because of differences in how the brain develops . In some animals , such as the nematode worm Caenorhabditis elegans , males and females develop in the same way until they reach sexual maturity . The brains of these animals are almost identical , but when they reach sexual maturity , males start to develop features that are not present in females . For example , the males develop a distinctive shape and begin to release chemical signals that help them find a mate . Here , Katic et al . studied how the brains of C . elegans males develop these male-specific features . The researchers found that a group of genes called the heterochronic pathway , which are already known to control the timing of development in other animals , also control the timing of sexual maturation in C . elegans . The heterochronic pathway contains three genes: lin-28 , lin-41 , and lin-29 . The first two genes are expressed throughout the worm’s life , but the third gene , lin-29 , is only turned on in the male’s brain when he reaches sexual maturity . The gene lin-29 then helps to trigger the production of a protein that helps the male’s brain to develop into its distinctive shape and triggers the release of the chemical signals . The genes lin-28 , lin-41 , and lin-29 are also expressed in other parts of the worm’s body , but they do not control the development of these other parts . Katic et al . also found that the timing of when lin-29 is turned on is controlled by the heterochronic pathway . This means that the timing of sexual maturation in the brain of C . elegans is determined by the timing of the heterochronic pathway , and the timing of the heterochronic pathway is controlled by the sex of the animal . Further research is needed to understand how the genes lin-28 , lin-41 , and lin-29 control the development of the male brain . Understanding this could help scientists to develop treatments for diseases that affect the brain and behavior .
Sexual reproduction is a key part of life for most living organisms . It involves cells called germ cells , which carry the genetic material needed to make new individuals . These cells are specialized to divide into sperm or egg cells . In mammals , including humans , the sperm cells have a particular protein called GCNA on their surface . Antibodies that bind to this protein can be used to identify the germ cells . The antibodies are also used in research to study how the genetic material is passed from one generation to the next . Until now , it was thought that GCNA was only present in mammals . However , the new study shows that the protein is present in all animals , including in some single-celled organisms . This suggests that GCNA may have evolved before the differentiation of germ cells . The study also shows that the protein is essential for the health of the genetic material in mice , as mice with a reduced amount of GCNA are sterile . This is the first time that a protein has been found to be essential for the health of the genetic material in an animal . The study reveals the importance of the protein to the health of the genetic material , and opens up new avenues for research into how the genetic material is passed on to the next generation .
The oviducts in female mammals are the tubes through which eggs travel from the ovaries to the uterus where they can be fertilized . If the egg is fertilized in the oviduct , it can implant into the wall of the uterus to develop into an embryo . The oviduct is lined by a layer of cells that produce secretions to help the egg travel through the tube and to provide a suitable environment for fertilization . The hormone estrogen is known to play a key role in controlling the activity of these cells and thus in supporting fertilization and embryo development . However , the exact role of estrogen in the oviduct is not well understood . To investigate this , Winuthayanon et al . used mice that lacked an important estrogen receptor in the cells lining the oviduct . These mice had difficulty getting pregnant and had fewer fertilized eggs than normal mice . When the fertilized eggs were examined , they were found to have an abnormal shape and to lack an embryo . The experiments also revealed that the oviduct cells produced more proteases , which are enzymes that can damage the outer membrane of the egg . In addition , the oviduct cells produced less of a protein called fetuin-B , which protects the egg from proteases . When the oviduct cells were treated with fetuin-B , fertilization and embryo development were restored . The findings of Winuthayanon et al . suggest that estrogen helps to regulate the activity of proteases in the oviduct and that this is essential for fertilization and embryo development . The results may also have implications for the development of new contraceptives and treatments for infertility .
In female mammals , the granulosa cells that surround the egg cells are responsible for their growth and development . FOXL2 is a protein that helps to control the growth of these cells and maintain their identity . FOXL2 is also important for the development of the reproductive organs . Mutations in the FOXL2 gene are associated with the loss of the ability to produce eggs and infertility in early adulthood . The exact role of FOXL2 in the ovary is not well understood . To investigate the role of FOXL2 , Georges et al . used mice and human cells to investigate the transcriptome of granulosa cells . The experiments showed that FOXL2 regulates the expression of many genes involved in the development of the ovary and the production of hormones . FOXL2 also influences the activity of five nuclear receptors that regulate the expression of genes involved in cell growth and the production of hormones . FOXL2 also controls the expression of the estrogen receptor , which is important for the production of estrogen and the maintenance of the female reproductive organs . These findings provide new insights into the role of FOXL2 in the ovary and suggest that it plays a key role in the development of the female reproductive organs .
The vomeronasal organ ( VNO ) of mammals is the main organ that detects pheromones . It contains more than 300 vomeronasal receptors , but only a few of them have been identified . Here , Haga-Yamanaka et al . describe two previously unknown pheromone-receptor pairs in mice . The first pair is a receptor that recognizes estrogen-like chemicals in female urine and triggers courtship behavior in male mice . The second pair is a receptor that recognizes a female-specific gender signal in female urine and is required for male mounting behavior . Haga-Yamanaka et al . also show that the two receptors are clustered together on the same chromosomal location . This suggests that multiple receptors may work together to detect the same pheromone signals , which could help ensure that important signals are not missed . The approach used by Haga-Yamanaka et al . to identify the receptors is a powerful method for understanding how pheromones work in mammals . It will be useful to find out how the pheromone-receptor pairs work in other mammals .
Our cells rely on proteins to perform a wide range of functions. One of the most important proteins are transcription factors, which bind to DNA to activate genes and control gene activity. Transcription factors are the proteins that control gene activity by binding to DNA. However , the molecular mechanism behind this process is not well understood . Now , Yin et al . have solved the structure of two transcription factors bound to DNA , revealing how they recognize DNA sequences . The analysis revealed that the two proteins can bind to two different DNA sequences with similar affinity , and that the difference in their binding strength is caused by a trade-off between enthalpy and entropy . The findings suggest that the ability of transcription factors to bind to two different DNA sequences is a common phenomenon . This could be important for the evolution of gene regulatory sequences . It could also aid in the development of new drugs that target specific interactions between molecules .
Bacteria are single-celled organisms that are typically too small to be seen with the naked eye . They are found in many different environments , including the human gut and soil . Some bacteria can cause disease , and are responsible for many serious infections . However , they can also be beneficial to people and other animals , and are used to make important foods like bread and cheese . Many bacteria have flagella , which are long whip-like appendages that extend from the surface of the cell . Flagella are formed by a protein called flagellin , and are made up of thousands of copies of a protein called flagellin . The flagellum is a hollow tube that contains a protein called flagellin , and the flagellin proteins are connected to the cell wall of the bacteria . The flagellum is made up of a long filament , which is attached to the cell wall at one end . The flagellum is propelled by the flagellin proteins , which rotate around the filament . The flagellum of a bacterium can be up to 10 micrometers long . This movement allows the bacteria to swim through liquids , and to move around in the environment . The flagellum is made up of a hollow tube , and inside the tube , there are thousands of flagellin proteins . These proteins are held together by a protein called FliD , which acts like a cap . The FliD protein is made up of several parts , and it is not clear how the parts of the FliD protein are connected . Now , Postel et al . have used a technique called cryo-electron microscopy to study the structure of the FliD protein . This technique involves freezing a sample of bacteria in a thin layer of ice , and then using an electron microscope to take an image of the sample . The images were taken at a resolution of 2 . 2 Å , which is the highest resolution ever achieved for a protein . The images revealed that the FliD protein is made up of three parts , and that the parts are held together by a protein called disulfide bonds . The three parts of the FliD protein are connected to the flagellum in a specific way , and the FliD protein also helps to keep the flagellum stable . This means that the flagellum is able to move freely , and the bacteria can swim through liquids . The flagellum is important for the survival of bacteria , and the FliD protein is also important for bacteria to move around in their environment . Knowing how the flagellum is made and how it works could help to develop new drugs to kill bacteria . This could help to treat bacterial infections .
